 What do you think about that? 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 You haven't cut off your options. 
 Mm. You could just let everything go. You're afraid of that. 
 Does that seem to you like the only alternative to letting everything go? Letting nothing go for a minute?
 Sure thing. 
 Mm-hmm. Like there's an extra decision involved. And it's very (inaudible).
 Uh-huh.
 But your uncomfortableness you made such a function of whether there is immediate outside pressures on you. Like a test. (inaudible)
 Mm-hmm.
 Kind of a dull, a dull (inaudible) that's familiar and it's not (inaudible).
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Like now, you're just in, you're kind of unhappy. You're kind of unhappy. Everything is kind of flat. But nothing is really tearing at you. Are you glad for that?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Not really. (inaudible) 
 Even this kind of unhappiness you mean?
 Can be very painful to you? 
 Mm. You talked about that before. I'm still not sure I really understand. There's nothing else to say?
 Mm. Everything you said was kind of out there.
 Mm.
 Mm. There are other things inside you but they aren't things you particularly have any words for. And-
 Mm-hmm.
 Those are kind of separate things. Could be kind of separate things. We've seen them together. That you don't know how to get into it or introduce it or start talking about it. Can be seen as separate from whether you have a way of organizing the whole thing.
 Mm-hmm. (inaudible) 
 Do you mind not having either a way of getting into it at all so that once you got into you wouldn't know how to structure it? 
 Mm-hmm. What's left is very confusing to you. 
 And very vague.
 Client 2326-104. One A, three and three-quarters. Number ten; 1970. You got a haircut; looks nice. 
 How does it feel? 
 I like it better.
 How come?
 So here you are.
 (Inaudible at 1:12), or are you playing a game?
 What kind of thing happened that bothered you?
 I said what kind of thing.
 Let me know what happened.
 OK.
 It terms of how you feel, or?
 All right, just bear with her and you really feel like God dang I wish to hell I weren't here with her.
 And you're feeling like gee, if I were really free, I'd being doing a lot of things I wanted to do.
 Would have a different quality.
 And it'd feel a lot better, and my relationship with her might even be better.
 In a sense that you could get caught in it?
 What's happening now?
 For me to do something.
 Kind of hoping that I'd do something?
 You ought to talk about it. What about it scares you now or upsets you now? Not the details of what happened then maybe you can leave. But what is it? What do you mean there's something about it now that concerns you?
 Un-huh.
 Do you want to?
 [Sort of a block] (ph) obviously now then.
 Is there anything rattling inside of you?
 How about ours?
 Un-huh. 
 And this, is the tenth? You said ...
 The number I have is ten. 
 Then I f**ked (ph) up.
 So that has the same, and you have some of the same kind of feelings.
 OK.
 I wasn't insisting that it was the same, I just wondered what ...
 How was it? Is it the same? Is it different?
 What are the edges that are similar?
 So it's not even ...
 Do you feel terrible, or?
 You screwed it up?
 Kind of ...
 Get your shoulders up and kind of hide a little bit. 
 So you were to blame? [10:14]
 What's it feel like?
 You just got to get out of here. 
 You're kind of panicky about it. I got to get out of here. I got to find somebody. When's somebody coming? When should I - what should I do? 
 That's part of it?
 That's part of the where do you belong? 
 Where is your place?
 Think that would help?
 But what feels like it would be comfortable? Will it be the - to live with her, and then you'd have a place where you could - she could do what she wanted, and you could go over and eat or write. 
 Then at least you'd know where you could go if you wanted to. Would you feel different?
 It would be tense over there?
 Maybe [with out everybody] (ph) who's having a good time, and whether she really wanted to get back with you. 
 [You always say those things] (ph)?
 Who?
 (Crosstalk).
 Kind of overly schedule and then routinized, routinized, or whatever.
 When I asked, I was thinking maybe your family was like that, or?
 Some people, where you really lived in that kind of situation, do for sure.
 You don't want it to get stuck that way.
 But other times it feels kind of, I don't know, sort of good to have something that you should be doing. I know.
 Did good, did you?
 No, I meant what kinds of things is it [good to do] (ph) now.
 (Laughter).
 Yeah.
 20 some.
 Kind of floating around. Are you back, or like this? 
 Where you floating there, or weren't you. Did you just stop? 
 It's coming down. I hear it coming down. 
 Like a clock, or a?
 Kind of strolling along?
 Did it hit?
 Did you hit bottom. 
 What's it like? Not too pleasant, but doesn't make you cranky (ph).
 Do you feel depressed?
 Or it feels like a feeling inside you that's not quite you maybe.
 Does anything bother when you totally sane, or?
 [Is it kind of like that] (ph) I shouldn't be feeling that way, or?
 When you don't - whether you can really trust your own feelings. 
 There's no way out of that. 
 In it.
 But I mean once you're feeling that way, you can't get anywhere.
 And is that have you feel when you're feeling sort of on the ground, or sane, or however you put it. 
 No.
 You really (inaudible at 22:52).
 Do you feel like also more united, or?
 And when it's unpleasant, it means you're (crosstalk).
 I guess you're good at it (chuckle).
 Because I guess [there's nothing you can do] (ph). I guess if things get too scary or too close or too awkward like what you were saying, you can kind of turn it off and slow down. 
 Maybe the thing of it, [let me guess] (ph), but you know for sure the feeling of how clear it feels sometimes, like yesterday.
 Sometime yesterday when you were thinking and stuff really made a lot of sense. And then somehow you find yourself off again. I'm not sure what that off again is like, but (crosstalk).
 When you say jealous, I'm not sure really, I know what it means, but I don't know how it is for you exactly.
 Is it ...
 Like, God I wish I were like somebody else? 
 How? Can you say it in sentences, or?
 You hate him.
 Explain that.
 OK, I was just guessing. 
 To him, yeah.
 When she could be spending it with me. 
 Like it would feel pompous? And you'd feel swell headed or something. 
 This proves it. But it's the kind of chomping hard on your teeth. 
 Feeling is ...
 You cringe it. 
 You've been remembering it. 
 What was the feeling like? Can you get a little close without feeling too about ...?
 God I hate you now. Feeling of I got to be close no more. I got to ...
 Scared to get that angry in public and ...
 Like just sensed it before you were that angry about it.
 What kind of thing was it?
 Were you embarrassed by that? You're looking a little like it that's why I'm asking.
 You really didn't make as a** of yourself. [31:09]
 Felt desperate.
 And you sure don't like to have to scream like that.
 Yeah, like even in him breaking (ph) down, it was like you were feeling some guilt.
 Was it ...
 Is that guilt?
 (Inaudible at 32:55) not knowing clearly what you were thinking. Whether you were feeling it was so icky (ph) now.
 It seems now like your feeling more comfortable about it.
 Maybe that's (inaudible at 33:28).
 So you're - well, wait a ...
 Were you surprised that she wasn't seeing you as much of a s**t as you thought you ought to be; she ought to be seeing that?
 You have to.
 But really feeling very, very on the edge of something and kind of tense too, I guess.
 And there's something still wrong about that. I don't know for sure what, but ...
 What's that thing, or?
 Do you have that kind of reaction now that the [feeling is out] (ph)?
 Is that kind of disgusting, or?
 OK, I see.
 Yeah, it's basically the, um, the recordings are sort of a $50 subsidy –
 so you know, what I typically do is I subtract $50 from my regular fee.
 I offered you a fee below that because I knew you couldn't afford it and I wanted to work with you. So right now that your insurance is covering it, I basically subtract $50 from my regular fee, which leaves you with a small co-pay. Does that make sense?
 So basically my fee's $195, so between that—between the $50 of this and what your insurance pay covers, it's like a $5 or $10 difference, and that's what I charge you. Does that make sense?
 Yeah, but—cause you were—you don't owe the difference. You know what I'm saying—it's your insurance plus this leaves you with a very small co-pay. [00:01:03]
 So, does that make sense?
 Okay, yeah, cause I knew you were concerned about that. You e-mailed me –
 No, it's not. You're not—you're not getting billed. You're just giving me a co-pay, that's it. And I think you have like an $80 credit, you know—do you want me to give you the $80 back or do you just want me to credit it to co-pays?
 Okay, that's fine.
 Associations about—?
 Yes.
 Yeah, so you were—I was sort of saying that this is a certain way of living; expansiveness and creativity –
 was important to you. So you think, okay: well Victor offers me this, this and this.
 And I was saying that you were very much—that he sort of becomes a concrete version of what you want, as if he's the only version of these things. You're saying, "Well, with Victor I can't go to book readings." —
 or book signings; as if Victor is the only representation of the things that you want. I think I was commenting on that. Does that make sense? [00:02:57]
 What do you mean 'removed'? How do you mean 'removed'?
 Um hmm. That's the flip side of what I way saying, yes.
 Yeah, and you really end up limiting your options. [00:04:04]
 You're limiting your options and then the people who do embody at least a piece of what you want, like Victor, there's a lot of urgency around it, right? Cause if he's like it, then there's a lot of urgency to do something quickly.
 Like living in the past and not seeing what you have in the present?
 Yeah, I'm not—I think you're using associations maybe a little bit differently than I do; or maybe just more other versions too. When you say: 'is it my associations" what does that mean? 
 I see.
 It's totally (inaudible at 00:11:55) (laughs) Um, it doesn't—does it matter? I mean, as long as—there's no proper definition of association I guess is what I mean.
 (pause for .05 seconds) About expecting things to come out similarly?
 It leads to indecisiveness. 
 It seems like you sometimes hope I can tell you what to do or make a decision for you.
 So would you like me to tell you what to do in the meantime?
 Do you think I have an answer?
 Hmm. [00:17:01]
 Like what—what kind of general things?
 I might have answers about that.
 Do you feel less lonely with David?
 Do you know why?
 That's a bit of a mean-spirited conversation.
 Receptivity?
 (pause for .03 seconds) That's a lot to give up.
 Are these the only two options in your life?
 Forever.
 Next week?
 You'll be 30 next year?
 Forget it.
 So the only way to go on dates is to get drunk.
 What made it that hard to say 'no'?
 Do you want to talk today or at some point about what happened to you with your neighbor?
 Was it your neighbor or your cousin who molested you?
 I'm not requesting that you talk about it. I'm just providing an invitation –
 cause I didn't want to leave that unnoticed. I know you were saying it in the context of what David does and doesn't offer you at times, but I didn't want to not notice that that's a big deal for many people.
 You don't have to tell me anything.
 And then?
 As excited? Probably not.
 Well do you think that you'll just all of a sudden find David exciting?
 I can't say what is or isn't possible.
 I can say what's unlikely. Can you imagine feeling that way toward David?
 That's a different question. A question of whether you can—that what David does offer you will be enough, and there are things that you can do without or do with less of is a different question that will you one day feel that David just offers you this.
 You were excited.
 I said you were excited. You're saying can people be excited. It's like, well, you were excited so you're people.
 You were excited with Victor.
 Well, I think maybe there are two separate things. There's one thing about finding someone exciting, which I think is separate than the thing that you're talking about—I think that's a problem that you feel toward David, and I think maybe related but a separate problem, is you're feeling like he emotionally understands you and is open to you.
 David.
 No, you feel he isn't.
 From what you're saying.
 Which maybe is part of what makes someone exciting—if they're able to do that—but I don't think that's all of it.
 It seems like—and maybe this is simply my value system, and I'm not here to impart my value system on you—but it seems like having someone understand you emotionally is a far deeper relationship need than having someone be exciting—which to some people is very important, and you should have that if it's important to you.
But it's hard to feel connected to someone—although you do feel connected to David in other ways—but feeling like someone really emotionally understands you, seems like a fairly basic need in a relationship. [00:44:33]
 So you're wondering if that need comes out of some difficulty you're having or whether it's more just sort of basic –
 Yeah, I think so. I think for many people too. I don't know about everybody, but I think there's—I think that—not to say everybody gets it in a relationship—but some people don't realize how important it is.
 Some people give up on it. But I do think it's a way—it's pretty basic for most people. I think that that's true.
 Cause it feels really, really good when you get it.
 So we need to stop for today.
 I will see you on Wednesday at 9:00.
 9:00. 10:15 on Mondays and 9:00 on Wednesdays.
 Okay, very good. Take care.
 Sure. [00:47:08]
(shuffling papers, no voices until [00:47:22)
 So how have you been?
 Okay, what's happening?
 Okay, shoot.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 So are you still taking it then?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Okay, that's with the Effexor you're talking about?
 Okay, so you're taking 2 then 1 then 2 and then 1 - 
 Okay.
 All right, okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.  Do you get it every day or on days that you take more?
 Uh-huh.
 Now let me make sure I understand.  Is that the Effexor XR, the 150's, that you're taking 2 and 1, do you know?  The higher strength, the prescription I gave you the last time, because what happened is the last time we talked about trying the 150's, we were going to go up to 2 and then you called back and said you were going to stay on the other dose, the 3 of the lower strength, do you remember that?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay, so you went to the higher dose and that's the one you've been taking 2 and 1, I understand, okay.  Okay, so you have a headache though, okay.
 Okay.  So do you feel sad or irritable or both?
 How are you sleeping?
 Are you having trouble getting to sleep?
 How long does it take usually after you turn off the lights, the TV?
 Okay, what type of diet.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh boy, something to look forward to eventually.
 And what's the name of this program?
 And it's something, are you trying to lose weight, is that why you're doing it?
 Okay.  How much do you weigh now?
 And where do you want to be?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.  So the diet involves using certain vitamins and is it, this schedule of herbs and vitamins that you take, wow, a lot of things to keep track of.
 Yeah and are you able to eat your normal diet with it or you have- 
 Okay and is it like a
 Okay.
 No.
 Okay
 Okay and how long to you plan to stay on this, do you know yet or you're just going to wait and see.
 Okay.
 Wow.
 Okay.
 Okay, all right, and you started it when, about a week ago?
 And have you noticed any weight loss yet?
 So 2 pounds the first week, okay.  So you're having trouble falling asleep and then sometimes you wake up because you're hungry.
 Okay.
 Okay and how's your energy level during the day?
 Okay, no motivation, okay.  How about concentration or focus?  If you're on a task or reading or watching TV, can you stay focused?
 Okay, good.
 Yeah.  What about worrying about things, do you find yourself worrying a lot or not too much?
 Okay or feeling anxious?
 Uh-huh.
 What kind of things are you worrying about?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 It's hard.
 I understand, I'm glad you're letting [NAME OTHER], someone else do it, you don't need the added stress.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Okay.  Are you doing anything for fun these days?
 Painting?
 Uh-huh
 Okay.  Are you doing any painting?
 Do you get any enjoyment out of just day to day activities or do you feel like you're just going through the motions?
 Okay.
 Are you having - 
 I'm sorry, go ahead.
 Well it could be depression and just being overwhelmed too.
 Has it gotten to the point [PATIENT NAME] that you've had any suicidal thoughts?
 Okay.
 No thoughts of taking your life actively, okay.  And the Zoloft, I have you on 150 to 200 which is one and a half or 2 pills a day, how many have you been taking?
 Okay.  Any side effects from it that you're aware of?
 Okay.
 The Zoloft, the possible side effects can be nausea, diarrhea, excessive sweating - 
 Okay.  Hot flashes -
 Well, it's weird, it can contribute or it can treat them.  Some women take Zoloft because in some women it stops their hot flashes so - 
 It can go either direction.
 Right.
 Right.
 Okay, yeah, the only way to know would be to stop the Zoloft and see if the sweating went away but that also involves the risk that the depression could get worse if we did that so.
 Uh-huh, let me look back and see here.
 And Effexor can do it too so, yeah, we started the Zoloft in April of '05 so it's been two and a half years about.  Yeah, the Effexor was longer than that.  Okay, anything else going on that I haven't asked you about before we talk about.
 Oh she is, in what way?
 With what again?
 Huh.
 Oh my goodness .
 Oh boy.
 Right.
 What kind of cancer does he have?
 Okay, so boy, there's plenty of stress in your life isn't there.
 Good.
 Oh boy.
 Yeah.
 Oh boy.
 It is a lot, yeah.  Well, [PATIENT NAME], I'm thinking what do we do to get you feeling better because it's at least easier to deal with if you're not so depressed.  It sounds like the Effexor is not working and in fact is giving you headaches, so we probably just want to back off on it and we could get you completely off of it and try something else.  Do you want to try switching?
 Yeah, there are a lot of other ones out there.  Let me just look back and see, before we tried Lexapro and Prozac - 
 Okay.
 Effexor?
 It could be, it could be. Um - 
 Okay and I'm thinking we want to find something that isn't going to cause weight gain also.
 Because you're trying to lose weight.  The ones that are best at not causing weight gain typically are Zoloft which you're on and another one called Wellbutrin
 Tried it and it didn't work?
 Let me look back in my notes and see if you tried it before you came to see me.
 I have a note in here that you tried it without benefits - 
 Way back somewhere.
 Okay.  And did the Prozac work for a while?
 Because with Prozac there's something called the poop out phenomenon, have I ever talked to you about that?  I don't know who came up with that term.  That's actually the term they use at medical conferences.
 Yeah, where it works well for a long time and then it stops working, we don't know why.
 Sometimes if you get off of it and go back on it then it works fine again, not forever maybe but for years again, so one of the things we could consider, since it worked so well before, is going back to the Prozac.  If we did that, we'd probably get you off the Zoloft and the Effexor though because you don't want to take Prozac with Zoloft usually.  That's one option, we can go back to Prozac.  We can try Wellbutrin now in combination with Zoloft which is a reasonable thing to try.  They are both energizing antidepressants so you'd probably have more energy but we'd have to be careful that it doesn't prevent you from sleeping because you're already having trouble sleeping.  Another, well, there's another option that's really good for depression which is a combination of Effexor and Remeron but Remeron can cause weight gain.  We could also do something to try to boost the effectiveness of the Zoloft, there are several different strategies, I'm just kind of thinking out loud with you, they range from using a mild stimulant like Adderall or Ritalin to a little bit of thyroid hormone.  Those options are very safe and not very likely to cause side effects and they work a fair amount of the time.  Do you have any history of thyroid problems?
 One of the things we could think about is adding a little bit of thyroid hormone which is a very safe thing to do and it works about 50% of the time and people feel better and they don't get any side effects from it.
 So I guess it depends on if we want to make major overhauls like switch back to Prozac which you were on before or want to do something that's a little less dramatic I guess and try and get the medicines that you're on to work more effectively.
 But I think we need to back off the Effexor because it's just giving you headaches and not helping.  Do you feel strongly about wanting to go back to something you've done before like Prozac or try something different?
 Okay.  What I would suggest, why don't we try the thyroid first along with Zoloft, that combination because it's a very safe combination.
 Minimal risk of any problems with side effects and it works at least half the time.
 Which is pretty close to starting all over with a new medicine again.
 Does that sound all right, okay.
 Okay.
 It could be - 
 And have you had your thyroid checked in the last year or 2?
 If you go in for like an annual physical, they'll usually check it.
 Okay, so I don't know if they test it or not.  They don't necessarily routinely check it.
 But ultimately it doesn't matter, if your thyroid test comes back normal, sometimes people still do better if they get put on thyroid hormones.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, so let me write out prescriptions of what we'll do here.  So the Zoloft we'll keep at the same dose.
 Right, one and a half tablets daily.  Effexor XR 150mg.  I'll write you a prescription for your thyroid.  Let me get some samples of the Effexor for you so you can taper off of it without having to get a new prescription, okay.
 Yeah.  Let me explain this to you so it makes some sense hopefully.  So, um, with the Zoloft you want to continue taking the one and a half tablets daily just like you've been doing.  The Effexor, the pills you have are 150mg, what you want to do is just take 1 each day for 7 days.
 And then you want to back down to 75mg, which are in here, each day for 7 days and then the smaller ones, the 37.5, each day for 7days and then stop it.
 And then go ahead, you can go ahead and start now the Cytomel, which is right here, it's the thyroid, 50mcg each morning - 
 Okay.
 Yeah, you'll be on this at the same time and you'll be slowly tapering off the Effexor over several weeks.
 The reason we do that is to avoid any kind of withdrawals from stopping because sometimes when people stop Effexor, they notice a little bit of dizziness, maybe a little bit of being a little more emotional or something.
 So does that sound okay?
 Okay.  Well let's try this, uh-huh.
 That's what the thyroid is for, yeah, that's the purpose of the thyroid is to try to boost the Zoloft to make it more effective.
 For the depression.  Now the other thing we need to think about is do we need to add in something for sleep or not, do you feel like you need something to help you sleep or do you want to wait and see how things go with these other changes?
 Well if we did there are several options, you could start with something real mild like an over the counter sleeping medicine which are usually antihistamines or you can just take Benadryl, then the next step up would be something that's a little bit more sedating like, um, Trazodone is one that we often use, it's a non addictive sleeping medicine.
 Okay, then we'd want something short acting.
 And there are some milder sleeping medicines like Lunesta.
 That is gentler, that people sometimes use just to help them get a good night sleep without feeling groggy in the morning. Do you want to - 
 Okay that's fine.  Let me get you some samples and a prescription so if it works you can get it filled.  
 No, Lunesta is one that you need a prescription for.
 Oh the little butterfly commercials - 
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.  
 You've got a lot going on right now it sounds like.  I'll give you some samples.  Here's the Lunesta prescription.  
 Uh-huh.
 Oh boy.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.  Well, I think it's probably good, when there's so much going on, to be able to shut some of it off because otherwise it can just feel overwhelming to try to think about all the things that are going on.  So [PATIENT NAME], do you want to check back in a month or so to see if all this is working?
 That would probably be a good idea this time, not going quite so long.  If you have any questions or problems sooner, you can call me, okay.
 So that'll put us into early November and remind me, are afternoons best for you?
 Okay.  I'll throw out some possibilities I have, on Monday November 5th at 2:30 is one option.
 Wednesday I have - 
 The 7th at 2:30?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh.
 [INAUDIBLE] at 2:30, okay, here you go and again if you have any questions before then, please call, okay.
 And hopefully we'll get you feeling better here.
 Oh great.
 Huh, I hope it'll be
 Oh good, I hope it's enjoyable for you, to have some things positive happening instead of things that are stressful.  Okay.
 All right, take care.
 You're very welcome, see you later.
 Bye bye.
 It's probably a low priority.
 Oh, that's too bad.
 Oh no.
 Wow.
 Right.
 That sounds exhausting, yeah.
 I see.
 How long have they been done?
 And how long were they together?
 Gotcha. So it's all very fresh. [0:02:36.2]
 You said something about a lot having happened? (both chuckle)
 Yeah, it sounds that way, yeah.
 Which day was the wedding?
 Good, just in that you weren't sick.
 Didn't miss anything.
 How many do you have?
 It adds up to a lot.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right, he left me a message.
 Good.
 Also, I touched base with Dr. V. [0:05:55.0]
 Last week, on Friday.
 Oh my gosh.
 So it's fast.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Thank you. Thank you. When did you then get back?
 So, the spectrum.
 And how did the rest of the day and evening go?
 Yeah.
 There sure has, absolutely. What comes to mind?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 But she doesn't sort of emotionally understand that in a way?
 I mean, I guess where I'm going is maybe you guys are sort of on the same page in that way.
 I mean you sort of present like reasonably, that you know you did what you could have done and you made the right decision, but I guess that's not what it feels like at all. [0:15:21.4]
 I see.
 You mean to guilt trip her about what you were just saying to me?
 Tell her that it's like, go get a shrink or something?
 Someone.
 Yeah.
 Even I know that one, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, it sounds that way. How bad shape is your sister in? [0:20:24.5]
 Can she do most of the day at work?
 Yeah.
 Maybe the same thing—by the way, you probably already know but those things are highly comorbid with bipolar disorder, very often have all sorts of executive function problems. So anyway, those are different things, but I guess really, where I'm going with this is probably clear, which is it doesn't sound like she's in as rough shape as you.
 I mean, she's having trouble working, you're taking a year off. She is sort of anxious and disorganized, it's like real issues, I'm not trying to minimize that, but she's not suicidal. Is she hurting herself? [0:22:50.4]
 She's not psychotic. She's bipolar too, probably not.
 And you're the one who's like crying and catatonic.
 Okay.
 No, that's true, fair enough.
 Sure. And ah, and the two of you are—I mean she was totally overwhelming you and you hung in there a lot.
 And both of your focuses on how you then couldn't be there for her, like nobody's even talking about... [0:23:56.9]
 At least the way you describe what happens from the time you got picked up at the airport, is it was entirely about what was going on with her and your having to sort of meet her exactly where she was at, and having to work really hard and at considerable cost to yourself, eventually tapping out.
 Oh, that's really—(overlapping).
 Yeah. That's a dangerous one to play around with too.
 There's like a really dangerous rash that you can get.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 So you've talked to him some.
 Right. [0:26:15.1]
 But that's not—that's I guess her sometimes not being able to do it. It's all her not being able to be there for you really. I don't think she wants—[0:27:34.1]
 No, you described that she was incredibly demanding, implicitly so.
 But really quite demanding.
 I see.
 It sort of seems that way to me, but I'm also aware that there's a—you know, I don't know much about how your family works, so.
 I see.
 What I'm wondering is about the extent to which you felt terribly left out and angry.
 But it didn't really account for the cost to you.
 Right.
 Think about a tortoise and a hare I guess.
 Right. (long pause) [0:33:36.0]
 Mm-hmm.
 Sure.
 I see.
 But I guess for whatever reasons, like again, my impression is that you must have felt really not taken into account. [0:36:15.2]
 In the way that she treated you before that.
 That she hadn't even conceived of your having feelings about how she was towards you.
 Yeah. I guess it sounds to me, like (inaudible) Friday with her.
 I mean she's got this suicidally depressed sister flying into town, who has just decided to take a year off school because she's not handling it well and can't work, which you know means so much to her, is a thousand miles away from her husband, and like the afternoon is going to be about buying and decorating a cake and like manically or hypomanically kind of getting all worked up and dramatic about it. [0:37:37.2]
 I can see how you both like collude.
 (overlapping).
 But I guess I'm imagining that maybe, probably, some of your reaction between the bouts with her and afterward, feeling like such a wreck, I mean I think it feels to you, it's just sort of like you're being sort of stretched so far out of shape in a way, by having to accommodate her in her mood, but I guess I'm wondering if it's also like having a reaction to what's being done to you, how you're being ignored in a way, I mean as much as you're sort of part of that process. [0:39:06.8]
 Sure. (long pause) I do take your point about how much it has meant to you to be in it together in this way, with your family, and how much that has kind of buoyed you with stuff you've dealt with and kind of kept you—
 We're going to stop for now. We'll talk more at 12:00.
 What do you suspect?
  Well, you know, it seems to me whatever there might be, uh, involved in what you're pointing to, the fact is very clear that you—, you do, uh, really ignore the second part of what I said.  That's the part you really leave out.  (pause)  That's really what you're leaving out, is what that made you think of and how it made you feel.
 Going away?
 But that's the point.  You really haven't said what you think.
 Then you might welcome it.
 Well, that fits with, uh, the notion I've been having, but I couldn't understand right away.  Because when you're describing your feeling this total withdrawal and imagining yourself holing up in bed at home, in this context of you feel your family has rejected you and they don't care about you and they don't love you and they don't care whether you come to PNOTS or whether they see you or whatever, I keep thinking of how you must have felt when you were thinking of, eh, committing suicide, and the fantasy you used to have:  "Then they'll be sorry."  And in a sense, what you call total withdrawal was a sort of a symb—, a way of saying something the same thing.  In this fantasy, uh, it does indeed sound like you were tempted to do the same thing to me.  But you have to hide it.  You can't simply get mad at your family or mad at me.  Instead you withdraw, and feel you're getting sick, as maybe you are.  But what it seems to mean to you is both a plea for sympathy and as saying "look what you've done to me."  It's an accusation.  All indirect.
 Well, our time's up.
 This is the 18th interview. This is the 18th interview. 
 Who's really a b**ch?
 What happened?
 (Inaudible at 0:00:25.5)
 (Inaudible at 0:00:42.1)
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Three days in a row. 
 For their side. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 (Inaudible at 0:02:15.5)
 Being kind of frazzled feeling while you're sleeping too.
 This was last night?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Was that kind of feeling like you really felt awful and didn't want anyone around?
 Feeling so bad. 
 You said what you felt.
 Mm-hmm.
 Kind of like that-
  - really last night it just made you really feel, I guess when you say three strikes and you're out, really down. Really (Inaudible at 0:06:25.8)
 Was it just frustrating or did it also just make you feel really miserable? (Inaudible at 0:06:33.3) too?
 Mm-hmm.
 Kind of like you feel tense now and you really felt tense (Inaudible at 0:06:49.7).
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah it's kind of like when you're just feeling so bad about everything, then you can just-while it was happening each time feeling worse and worse and getting more tense. (Inaudible at 0:07:18.0)
 Uh-huh. Kind of like you're trying to do anything.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Yeah. Just all you could do is kind of just feel how it was kind of overtaking you.
 (Inaudible at 0:08:42.9)
 Mm-hmm.
 Did you feel then-did you want to? Did you do it because it was an obligation? 
 (Inaudible at 0:08:58.0) Yeah it's like I have to do it to show myself and her that I can do it.
 That certainly makes it harder then. 
 Yeah it's just I can really see how you feel like there are just sometimes-
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah I really. Yeah I sense that you just wanted to give up everything. [0:10:52.6]
 Kind of like you feel all these pressures on you right now. 
 Mm-hmm. Really feel like you-
 You were really getting mad?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah it's like you know that it's because you're so tense but you can't (Inaudible at 0:13:23.1). 
 (Inaudible at 0:13:26.8) not to be. 
 Yeah and it feels like, kind of desperate too. 
 I'm just feeling so tense and so overwhelmed.
 Really want to really try to break out. And just kind of feel peaceful.
 And tranquil.
 Even what?
 Makes you feel more tense?
 The light's off. 
 Sometimes I guess when I feel chaotic I turn the lights off because it just makes it a little softer or something. 
 I sense that it's not just tense it's really depressed too.
 How does that feel? I mean what does it make you feel like? 
 I mean does it-
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah. Like really caught in a bind. 
 It's almost kind of like you want to try but you think you might worry about it.
 And kind of like, does it kind of make you feel like everything seems really bleak and there's no hope?
 Like you'll never be able to just have sex.
 Relax about it and not not be able to have sex. [0:16:59.2]
 Kind of like it's always going to be this way.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 (Inaudible at 0:17:55.3) feel like you needed it.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah but it's kind of like, I guess you feel like you just don't want to have sex when you feel really kind of-
 It's like because it's been a long time you want to be able to have it, be able to have it every so often.
 And not get caught up in the problem of not finding yourself able to have an erection. 
 Who?
 Oh. 
 Mm-hmm.
 It's kind of like-
 Yeah you would've felt not great but at least just having failed three times just made you feel really awkward.
 Afterwards.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah. It's kind of I guess you feel like you know yourself best. But I guess what you're saying is that if I don't really feel like it I know it's not going to work out.
 When I do really feel like it, it does. 
 Downstairs?
 Did you try the different floors?
 (Inaudible)
 Yeah it kind of built another end up. (Audio loss at 0:22:22.1 to 0:22:31.9) Took them long enough to build it. (Audio loss at 0:22:34.1 to 0:22:43.2) It's a new map. (Inaudible)
 Yeah right. (Audio loss at 0:22:52.9 to 0:22:54.1)
 (Inaudible) (Audio loss at 0:23:03.9 to 0:23:05.8)
 (Inaudible at 0:23:06.0) 
 Yeah well these buildings (audio loss at 0:23:38.0 to 0:23:39.7) was built a real long time ago.
 What they did was-I think the building is probably about 50 years old. 
 It was named after them. And what they did is, they like to keep the old buildings up and not tear them down.
 So what they do, because they like the gothic, they rip the insides out.
 That's much more expensive than building a whole new building. 
 Because it's like you have to be careful to keep the outsides up.
 And what they did to this one is (Inaudible at 0:24:05.3). 
 (Inaudible) buildings around here like that. It's strange. It's like old on the outside.
 Have you seen some of the old ones? Gothic looking ones with the carved (Inaudible at 0:24:41.0).
 Yeah they don't make them like they used to.
 (Inaudible)
 Is that you feel tired or just don't want to see her?
 Yeah I guess the whole thing is like you're so upset about the sex business that you don't-it's like seeing Tanya reminds you.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Well she understand-was she pissed that you couldn't have intercourse? Was that-
 That doesn't sound like what she was pissed about.
 Well it sounds like she took that as a rejection of her. 
 Mm-hmm.
 I guess she didn't really understand it was because you were upset. (Inaudible at 0:26:42.9) taken from her.
 (Inaudible at 0:26:45.4) whole thing. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm. (Inaudible) this time of year it's like it's really bad. (Inaudible)
 Mm-hmm.
 They're kind of done with everything you want to do with them?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 It's kind of like you really feel like just putting all the living kind of away. 
 Like nothing seems to make you-everything seems to make you feel worse.
 Pardon?
 He's been getting worse. 
 Mm-hmm.
 (Inaudible at 0:34:57.6)
 Yeah?
 And they end on Tuesday.
 Yeah it's kind of like well God, I won't have to come in and face that. 
 Inferno everyday. 
 Are you just going to, what are you going to take those art courses?
 When is she leaving?
 Next week.
 (Inaudible at 0:37:23.8) really the way you feel. 
 Losing.
 Mm-hmm. Time to get away from the city.
 (Inaudible)
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 I guess they kind of think that this must be something similar to getting paid (Inaudible at 0:40:58.9). 
 Getting paid to go to bed.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 [Tell them to support their husbands.] (ph)
 Yeah it's kind of like it's something new. And-
  - and intriguing.
 Time is about up.
 (Inaudible) [0:45:34.0] [end of audio]
 (tape starts in the middle) being late.
 Oh, I'm sorry you feel that way.
 Yeah, it hurt like fuck and it hurt for a long time.
 What happened on Friday night?
 Wow.
 At William & Mary?
[00:14:05]
 Yeah. (pause) And you're not feeling (inaudible) disappointed in like therapy or me at the present?
 Well, what happens, how did you get to the point where you're holding the knife like on Friday?
 What do you say?
[00:25:18]
 You're still in a car crash.
 And you didn't know why it was coming?
 I can imagine it sort of, (pause) being confronted again by the disappointment and frustration about what's happened.
 Well, I think you're sort of very attuned to and affected by your sense of the view the other person has of you. I don't mean like if you think somebody feels critical it's her fault, well, there's some of that. But I'm thinking more like about how you were probably pretty vividly feeling when you were talking to your advisor? You know, her (inaudible) talents and potential, the future she saw for you. I don't know but I would guess that was pretty vivid for you while you were talking to her.
 And that the gap between that and how you feel and are functioning mostly now was dreadful.
 Well, are those things related in that maybe you're just so furious at yourself when you're sitting there trying to work.
[00:33:54]
 Because, and I think that you're upset about work, like, how much grief you feel for where you're at professionally now, makes it more difficult to work?
 I think pretty much everything you said today has to do with disappointing other people or disappointing yourself.
 I guess maybe in the beginning a little bit about being disappointed by medications and doctors, but since then, I think (inaudible) letting people down.
 I guess I'm not sure about this, but I imagine that you know when you talk about how bad things get on a bad night, but in a way, you're sort of talking about, you're kind of grieving for what happens when it's like that. But I'm sort of suspecting there's an element of feeling like you're being a disappointment, not necessarily to me, but it's not what you're supposed to do. It's not right, it's not how you're supposed to be.
 I think there's also just grief in there, but.
 I see. So
 (inaudible)
[00:42:39
 No, that's important, but actually that's a slightly different kind of guilt than the, you don't want somebody else, like James or like me to see you like that and be helpless.
 Maybe sort of an issue is, even if you're talking, let's say to me, how much are you still in it alone anyway?
 That means that even if we're talking about it, let's say, on the phone, if there's nothing that can be done, you're as much by yourself?
 I see. You're inevitably alone.
 We should stop now.
[End of file]
 As it turned out. (Laughter) 
 (inaudible at 00:02:36)
 Was today your first day in the group?
 I think it was Friday that you were saying this is the face of things you hate. 
 How does he convey that?
 Yeah, but I understand. 
 You can (inaudible at 00:07:37) being pissed off about your apartment without sort of having to reign yourself in and be realistic. Of course both those realities are true. I'm sure you're generally quite in touch with them. 
 I guess you imagine I'll see you as greedy? [00:08:53]
 Okay. [00:09:28]
 That insatiable. 
 I bet that's not just about kitchens. 
 I mean I know what you mean and a kitchen is probably a pretty good arena for that sort of thing as far as I know. (Pause) At least (inaudible at 00:11:24) a minute or two ago you're worried if you really let yourself and don't reign yourself in you will go totally off the deep end. [00:11:34]
 And that probably (pause) you'd get yourself into a really painful irrational inappropriate destructive behavior or something. 
 I think that... It doesn't sound to me like keeping up with the Jones's in a competitive sense. It sounds more to me like you want things that feel nice. [00:12:33]
 That gives you a (inaudible at 00:12:38) make you feel good about cravings. But maybe you want a better kitchen, a different kitchen, but I don't know. But I haven't heard anything really that bad yet. (Pause)
 Again, obviously the financial aspect is important, but I have the sense that like satisfying would feel good for you about owning where you live like it would feel substantial and...
 (Pause) The thing is it sounds to me like are you taken care of like he's also taking care of you. And that feeling of, I think, a tremendous sort of lack in that department, I think, probably through your whole life. [00:16:09]
 And I want to make it clear that I don't know enough about things with you and Dave to sort of give you quality of any kind of general way. I'm aware of the conversation you're talking about now. That you're frustrated about but not wanting to slight him. I'm happy to slight your parents about it but not further more. But I don't want to be... 
 Then who's is it?
 (inaudible at 00:16:50). I get it.
 I don't know what's true in reality but in terms of what your experience of this is like, hasn't it... In ways you know even though you're the sharing the space it doesn't feel as though much of it is yours. [00:20:16]
 So the question is if there was some space somehow like you could do what you wanted with (inaudible at 00:20:46). Not awesome but better. 
 It's pretty awful to be living somewhere that you really don't like with a bunch of stuff that drives you up a wall and no sense of control about it. [00:22:08]
 And yet I get—this isn't exactly what you said, I'm sort of inferring here—but it seems to me you do feel sort of greedy, or like you're being entitled, or something if you want things to be different like you don't deserve it. Maybe less so now that you're working. But it sounds like this whole time (inaudible at 00:23:10). (Pause) [00:23:31]
 (Laughter)
 I'm not necessarily suggesting you do that but it's interesting. (Pause) And I'm sorry. I don't mean to make light of something I know is...
 No. The thing I was finding funny was that you were saying you felt it would be unfair if you would throw it away when it wasn't at all to me what he was doing was any fair. That was the thing that I was laughing about not actually your frustration. 
 It sounds like there's this which is frustrating in itself and it's connected to lots of other things that are also incredibly frustrating. But anyway I'm sorry for making light. (Pause) I guess (pause) doesn't sound to me like there was any particular question in the way you put that which I heard as and so what the hell am I supposed to do. [00:26:44]
 I don't know. (Pause) I don't know what the (inaudible at 00:27:05). I guess what is clear is how much you resent your feeling over it to the point where I imagine it's probably pretty hard to think and talk about. 
 I don't know. Do you feel like it would weigh you down, or feel like a relief, or screw you up? 
 Yeah. [00:29:06] (Pause) 
 We can stop for now. 
 Yes.
 Is this the room she was in?
 Yeah, that's a thing we can talk about for sure. It is very gruesome, right. So, here we are. Let me tell you a bit to get us started. What I like to do in the first session, it's a 45 minute session, is just I'd like to get to know you, and then in the end I'll take about ten minutes to tell you about myself and about the therapy. What you can sort of expect from these sessions. So why don't you start by telling me...
 Let me say that I read over the things you filled out. I read over all the clinically relevant things. All the things that are relevant to therapy. Which is probably... I didn't... I'm not quite sure which forms you filled out in the beginning.
 Yeah, I probably read one of them. And the forms that you fill out at the end of each session and at mid-phase and the end, and six months later.
 So I know what you've written. But I want to hear it from you as well.
 So what brings you in?
 You've been there twice.
 Yes.
 It feels funny to just launch in to it?
 Do you want to say a little more about what is funny?
 With the same person.
 What made you decide not to go? Or what made you not choose the same person again?
 OK. 
 Well let me say as we... I'm curious about when you feel funny saying things. And probably for the next three sessions I'll be curious about how you feel as you say things. I think it is important to be aware of those things. Or it is very helpful for you to be as aware as possible. But that is by way of explaining a bit of the therapy.
 Felt kind of light.
 But that's there too. [0:04:40]
 What's her name again? I remember you...
 Samantha. 
 On top of you.
 That seems sort of cut and dry. 
 Oh. How does that feel? 
 Yeah, yeah. OK. So when you left there was some, so... you can feel that sadness right now. What is the hurt? 
 So you're only allowed to have half of the discussion with him.
 Yes.
 Meaning that he didn't really want to hear what you were saying, he was sort of like, "just get through this."
 What's his name?
 You were feeling very alone and you were reaching out...
 And what is going on for you during that? How did you feel... you said you got angry at one point, and you left the room? Were you aware of any other feelings? During that? Was a lot of anger?
 An issue. Mmhmm. Where you felt very sad for a couple moments there and then you seems to me, sort of talked your way out of it? How did you do that? How did you stop being sad? You're aware something happened to you. Are you aware of feeling any sadness now?
 Was that when I brought it up or just throughout when you were talking?
 It is interesting you seemed to kind of really touch something, and then ways you were talking, you kind of got yourself more together. Not that you weren't... You were thinking about it more.
 So there's this hope still. 
 Do you want him to come?
 Close the book. Yes. That can be painful. 
 What is it like to say some of this to me? When you're talking about Carlos? What's it feel like to say it to me? Is there a feeling there?
 Is that OK?
 Where should we go next? Do you want me to ask you questions?
 So when you came back, you moved in with your father? How is that?
 You started getting nasty meaning?
 Can you give me a flavor?
 That seemed easier to kind of be apart, than to have that meanness be a part of the relationship?
 Was he on top of you at that time?
 So it feels like, what? Like some beast of prey about to pounce. It doesn't feel like it is caring sometimes?
 It is a bit much.
 Was part of that him; was he sort of persuading you a bit?
 And that's a big thing for you. 
 He was going to kind of pull out her whole arsenal to get you back.
 So he said, "I'm going to come to Peru to help you decide?"
 And how did you feel about your father coming to Peru?
 You felt how?
 So that was part of it? [0:25:03]
 So you're kind of describing being a pawn of these other forces. Sort of like your father, and this fear he's going to drag you away and your friends will keep you and Carlos who now at this point wants you to stay.
 So to him this was kind of...
 Meaning you wanted to get his approval.
 And so he gave her approval?
 Be with Carlos.
 Yes. 
 With this guy.
 But he took your best friend, your closest friend away from you. I mean in some ways.
 And suppose your father hadn't given you approval. I mean, had given. He started off by saying, you said he went nuts. "You need to be here, you're supposedly a feminist and here you are chasing a man around, not in America" he sort of really tried to get you here. Suppose he had stayed that way? What would that have been for you?
 Suppose he hadn't said that?
 And what would have been the feelings that go with that?
 And when you say horrible, what...
 A flake? [0:30:32}
 Disappointment. 
 You're convincing. You're making the case.
 Right. Right. So there's a fear, or I'm imagining there is a fear that someone may be disappointed in you or that you're a little disappointed in yourself. You're sort of justifying it before you're accused. 
 Yes. And maybe a fear of, am I hearing a fear of disappointing dad generally? Can you just sort of stay with that? What is that about?
 So you can feel it. You can feel it. It is in your body.
 Trish is back in the States? [0:32:14]
 Right, you're kind of scanning for it. Yes. And what is the fear there? I mean, this is difficult. I'm trying to get the quality of that fear, a sense of what that is. Like, when you were lying in bed, what were some of the things you were thinking, feeling, imagining?
 What would be the worst sort of thing you could imagine? As you're lying in bed and you're thinking about Trish and imagining what your father said in that tone of voice, what would be the worst thing you could imagine that he would be thinking?[0:33:46]
 Something like that.
 That's the feeling.
 Are there better words for it?
 So you're...
 Right. So I can...
 What's that?
 I was aware of that too. I was thinking that too. So there's a part of you that it's important for me to know and for you to say, "Well, generally my father approves of me." It's not like he goes around thinking, I'm a flake that follows Carlos around. That's not...
 Yes. And I'm imaging- and tell me how this fits, you might be feeling tricky that you most often, or always or whatever, I don't know quite sure most often. Let's say, won his approval and then sometimes feel that he is on top of you. That can be tricky to negotiate I would imagine. I want his approval, maybe he's too much. Or does that not quite fit.
 I mean, I don't know...
 Are they ever intentioned or not really, that kind of, "I want his approval, maybe he is on top of me too much. " Is there a tension between those two things?[0:36:36]
 Yes. 
 Time to get structured again. Well what is it like saying this to me? You said on your questionnaire that it is somewhat difficult for you to speak. You actually said in groups, but you said sometimes to men as well. 
 Men.
 How is it to say some of this to me?
 What is the non-OK part of it? Or it is completely OK?
 Hunky Dory.[0:37:31]
 So that's a little overwhelming, feel like. 
 Yeah.
 So how did you do that? What do you do to go from kind of overwhelmed to being OK?
 No. The reason I ask is because you do something. You do something to keep yourself from not going like whatever you experienced when you were out there. And I'm just kind of curious what you do, if there's thought, a way that you feel?
 I am sort of groping in the dark right now. I don't have anything in mind. I'm just curious.
 Yes. But I'll keep, I should say a bit about the therapy. I'll keep asking you about your experience of things. Your feeling experience. Not so much, what you're thinking although I'm interested in what you're thinking. But I'll sort of keep checking up your feeling are about things. This is the kind of short-term therapy, which is very focused. And one of the focuses is increasing your awareness of what you're feeling. [0:40:22]
 This. This is the integration. This is an integration of a lot of different therapies. I'm going to give you this, which you can take with you, which is a thing we wrote up which summarizes the way I'll be approaching things. But I'll be asking you to sort of tend to yourself and we'll be working to help you, us, to become more aware of you r experience. And also, what goes on between us. Because, for example, if you feel a lot of anxiety in your life around men, around social situations, I'm a man, this is a kind of social situation, And if we can explore what is going on here, And you can become aware what is going on between here, you can use that awareness out there. So that is kind of where I'll be steering us at times. Any thoughts, any feelings on that?
 OK. So you said it was a little embarrassing to say sort of, "Oh, young, good-looking guy, this is going to be a lot." 
 Right. And it sort of feels to me like you're showing me two parts of yourself. Like there's a part of you that is going to freak out a little bit And be like, "Whoa, this makes me very anxious," but there is a part of you that gets yourself together. There is a part of you that somehow by the time you sat down, you were better with it.
 So we'll see, as you become more aware of it, what that is about. So, where are you at now?
 It is one of those moments when I can ask a question; we have about two minutes, two or three minutes. Do you have any questions? About me, or anything at all?
 Psychology intern, yes. 
 I'm finishing up my PhD, so this is the last year of my PhD training. So around...
 At Loyola University.
 I was in Connecticut for four years, doing, that was the graduate part.
 I've been involved with this program all along. So for quite some time I have been seeing patients in it for quite some time, for a couple years. But I am now finishing up the Degree And [inaudible 0:43:54] full time. 
 Anything else? And the camera, how about any concern? Right. It is a little, what is that look.
 What is the nervousness like?
 So it is like, self-conscious nervousness? Like every little thing I do is...
 In cases you could see the camera and feel a little nervous about it. As all things, I'm interested in anything that is going on with you. So increasingly if you're very aware of it, let me know. I've been doing this so long that I tend to forget about it. Tell me if that is a concern. 
 That's actually a prop, that's not the real camera. We have the real camera hidden inside the wall. OK, we should wrap up.
 That is OK bringing it next time.
 That's OK bring it next time. So what time did you get here today?
 Five, two, track A, part one; 50426002 session three, 50426-002 session three. [No more comments] (ph) today. 
 You can't do it by yourself.
 And money is more important than you are.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. You can try to make allowances, but it cut awful deeply.
 So it seems to you that it's not, or your difficulty thinking that it's only the money.
 Like he's sort of just sitting around.
 Waiting. 
 How funny (ph).
 I don't know what you're telling me here. 
 Oh, I'm sick of her vindictively, or like ... 
 Yeah, like he'd be board.
 You mean there aren't - he didn't just, that isn't just smart talk, he really ...
 OK.
 Sound like he just sort of almost constitutionally selfish.
 Intelligence to grasp it. 
 Operable.
 If only he'd acted as if you have the intelligence of a Libra. 
 Because you are as much a [student of knowledge] (ph). Think about it. Kind of sounds like it really hurts your feelings. [8:19]
 He really cares for them, and he's affectionate with them. 
 And he's indifferent and cold toward you.
 You can't even hit him over the head with it because he's so serious.
 That's how I am, and I can't change. 
 You mean you'd really like to let him have it.
 Since you've gotten here this pool has been a black cloud over both your heads.
 He's like a different person then with a kind of brutality that you hadn't known.
 If you hadn't been so wide eyed and naive, you would have been really all electric (ph).
 Maybe it'll pass like its Poison Ivy. 
 You know what; you were also saying what's the use of doing anything because it's not going to matter.
 He's like a big heavy rock that can't be budged no matter what; bang my fists against it, put my arm around it; can't get it to move. 
 When you talk about it, you really experience how terrible it is.
 It's crushing.
 So it's impractical for you to get a divorce.
 Yeah, yeah. You can't look forward to a divorce, and you don't even want a divorce because it seems like you may need to be hanging on a change. And you're - you hate to wake up someday to know and find out that nothing has changed. And it's a horrible situation for you, for him, and for the children [as far at that all says] (ph)
 Yeah. If you're saying if he were to be really courteous to me that one would be toward any human being ...
 Than it's like he is cruel. He's the way he wouldn't be to somebody else. [17:12]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you want me to?
 That's what I'm hearing (ph).
 Some choice.
 To live in a loveless house [with you; old you] (ph). 
 Lived in a loveless, cold man. 
 You don't really have a choice.
 The only thing left to you is vocal (ph) self-delusion; try to tell things are all right, maybe you'll believe it.
 You're not just going to sit there and lie passive desperate to do something. 
 You're not willing to sacrifice your sleep for the children - I guess, I'm not sure if it's a sacrifice. 
 I see. I'm sorry; you said you'd give up one or the other. What are the two things?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So there's more. So the children matter to you. 
 [In any event] (ph). 
 Or even when you're away from them, he doesn't let you get away from them. 
 Yeah. He cares for those kids. [26:08] 
 He hurts you greatly that he cares so much for them and so little for you. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So he's the mother and father.
 And not husband and lover. That must really make you jealous to watch him with them.
 He just ordered them out as it serves him
 Yeah. 
 What?
 He has sweet (ph).
 You really put him on a pedestal. 
 The adoring wife.
 Easily.
 (Inaudible at 30:10). 
 Now it looks like he gets to be a player. 
 You didn't write - here it is, this article.
 And you know it has to be bad when you started getting sick of it.
 Yeah. 
 You mean he's been right so many times that you just assume he's right now. [32:10]
 All right, it sounds like you compare the two of you or contrast the two of you. And you see him as kind of a coldly, deliberate, analytical intelligent that we he says something, you're caught up in cold, deliberate analysis. You're, and you kind of see you, I guess, as, oh, sort of spontaneous and impulsive and consequently you kind of let things out before they're thought through. 
 So then you'll be shot down by someone like him.
 "Well, what does she mean by that?"
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, but it also sounded like what you do know or what you didn't think, it feels like you have to footnote it all.
 Yeah, well try and take your sources.
 Boy you really just shape up when you talk to him.
 It's all right for him.
 Yeah, yeah. So the girls will keep everything going?
 Be a stoic or time to time going through each day.
 [If I didn't do for you] (ph) because I'm afraid that you're on the verge of leaving. 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. It sure isn't going to change his life. 
 Not as boring as he treats it. 
 He is not viscous (ph).
 Yeah. That's his whole life and interest; that and the girls. 
 Sounds like you're saying that he's really a very zealous and guy whose devoted to everything that he does except married to me.
 Maybe he just sort of takes advantage and kicks around and shoots you down, which he does zealously. 
 Tell me what you mean.
 You sound like you part realizes how selfish until (cross like).
 I'm hearing you say the issue. He may or may not be. And you're saying right out he isn't, but that's not the issue.
 Well what does that do mean that he so (crosstalk).
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But you don't have an assumption.
 You just can't reconcile yourself to leaving them alone at all.
 So Veronica (ph) you're saying despite the fact that he doesn't do a damn thing for you, that you really do feel like how to be (inaudible at 46:24). 
 Yeah. 
 You're not going to get a job. You're not going to get a vacation. That you couldn't get anything or do anything.
 I thought you're thinking it's a heck of a lot easier in here.
 It's (crosstalk).
 Those are the - that doesn't sound like get is the, you must feel like you have to make it up to.
 For having been gone all day; super mother.
 So that sure makes goal now to work and inviting me there (laughter).
 What the hell. All you have to do is do everything you did before only better. 
 How could you possibly ...
 You mean you couldn't even get a job as a light housekeeper.
 So you're washed up at ...
 Twenty-six.
 Yeah. 
 Sounds like it might not be risk involved about having a child at home.
 Sounds like what he's doing is he sort of laid down a law, and then encouraged you to break it. [52:06]
 And it makes you feel guilty and cruddy, I guess. 
 They didn't look after for you then.
 Well you're taking notes for yourself. 
 Unless you get away with murder. 
 Yeah, but you know where they did see (crosstalk).
 It also sounds like you have some feelings for men.
 You can understand.
 Well I'm hearing what you're saying; it sounds like you see yourself missing something.
 Right now. Like there's some thing in you that isn't - there's something that should be in you that isn't in you because they treated you like a princess almost or something.
 Yeah, but what I was wondering is, and not having a clear pinpoint to your life, what's missing in you?
 Yeah, OK. 
 It sounds like you have a secret.
 You should be [happy at least] (ph).
 You want sit in here for a while; you got a parka on.
 It's pretty disconcerting.
 [...] (inaudible at 00:03:33)
 So what happens is you'll be sitting there working along minding your own business or whatever, and it comes over you in a fairly sudden way where you go kind of brain dead and feel out of it and can't really work?
 Sometimes it's at the end of the day and other times it might hit at 11:00?
 When you were in school and didn't have [...] (inaudible at 00:05:04) all over the place, you'd sort of go off and read something and then [...] (crosstalk at 00:05:11) you were gone; and you'd wake up and feel better.
 Those 15 minutes of napping would get you out of it?
 Okay, that might be ...
 Right. You've tried eating things and whatever, and that doesn't seem to be ... there are a few things that make it sound to me like it's not just physiology. [00:06:34]
 It relates to when you started feeling more depressed I think you were saying.
 Yeah. I can see how it would get in the way.
 What does she talk about? (both laugh) Or what doesn't she talk about?
 Why doesn't she use names?
 She's kind of annoying?
 You're saying the way you talk about it, I would imagine it's not that you check out, but that you kind of have less patience for how much she talks.
 I'm imagining that you're having some sort of emotional reaction to her talking to you that relates to why it's harder to focus or why you check out of what she's saying and, moreover, that whatever reaction you're having, would probably shed some light or be a kind of special case of a more general reaction that causes you to check out, which is kind of what you're limping about today, I think—why you do that. Did that make sense? [00:12:32]
 So do you get impatient with both Sophia and Tanya?
 It sounds like you're a little bit more critical of Sophia in a way; but with Tanya sometimes what she does is annoying, but you don't fault her in quite the same way. Your own reaction of annoyance and frustration (chuckles), I guess, is there but, as you also say, you're kind of stuck in ... [00:14:43]
 Right. I think what you're describing about being annoyed may be significant. It may relate to why you check out, but I don't think it's because you have huge issues, per se, with them. It's not like there's some smoldering theory of who they are or within the relationships that has to be worked out. I don't think it's something like that. I don't know what it is, but what I imagine it could be is maybe you're frustrated working as hard as you do in the lab, working in the lab, because you're not really getting out of it some of the things you want to, such as a clear direction for your future. In other words, you're pretty frustrated, I think, broadly about career stuff and where you're headed and upset about the whole med school thing with the dean. Here you are going in and, it sounds like, working pretty diligently and trying to do the best you can and so forth. I could imagine there is a kind of worry/tension/frustration with work overall for not [...] (inaudible at [00:16:47]) an area of your life where you're feeling stuck and you're kind of saying that you've done the things you're supposed to do and are not getting the things you wanted to get out of it, in a way. I don't mean immediately from the job, like they're sending you paychecks, I imagine, but in terms of having a clear direction career-wise that you feel good about. I would think that that's both disappointing and frustrating and maybe something like the two of them being annoying can kind of touch off frustration as it relates to work in general. I don't know if that's exactly true, but when I said I think you're frustrating is significant, it doesn't mean it's because I think those relationships in particular necessarily matter in time. It's not like secretly I think there's all this stuff going on. I don't mean like that. [00:17:52] I mean more that maybe it's something about there are other ways that the frustration has a kind of significance to you that hasn't been clear yet, but that relates to why you sort of checked out in those moments. Again, I'm not saying it's necessarily a broad frustration with work, that that's the cause of it, but that would be one plausible thing, for example, that sort of comes to mind where you're just feeling like it's all really unfair and that you've done the right things and put in your time and done what you're supposed to do; and yet things aren't working out for you in the way that you wanted. That's sort of brewing for you and then, "Oh, my God, these fucking researchers," who is actually nice is talking like I'll be a mirror off of people I don't even know who she's talking about. That's the kind of thing, so there's a part of me that's just like this. But, again, that's kind of hypothetical but I wanted to sort of, at least, say something about the type of thing it might be. [00:19:14]
 Oh, my gosh. An eight-year post-doc?
 You're being watched. You're being interrupted. You're getting sucked into drama. Like you said, my guess is it's also interruptions sort of relate to the grind at work and are not always social interruptions.
 It doesn't sound like it's not entirely fine. I guess it's fine in principal but, maybe in the moment where you're actually working on something and she comes over and asks you a question about her English homework, it's not. [00:23:24]
 I think the "being drained" feeling often comes first and then—I guess what I'm asking is—it sounds like you're saying the "being drained" thing is quite separate from the stuff going on with other people in the lab.
 I see. Whereas it sounds like not wanting to listen to them or having the patience for them that you have if you're feeling better ...
 I see. So the bigger question is about why you're feeling sort of drained and have so little energy in the first place, and that's unclear. (pause)
 This is where you're talking about sitting?
 See if you had your old bed ... (both laugh)
 I thinking it's probably psychological. I mean, of course I'm going to say that, but [...] (inaudible at 00:28:20)
 Is it something about the passivity?
 Like being subject to all of the stuff that's happened? Instead of trying to figure it out, what pops into your head? What comes to mind? It's often more helpful—I know that in life thinking about things and figuring them out is often very useful. But what just comes to mind? If you think of what just randomly comes to your head. [00:29:26]
 Yeah, like where it's kind of work for you in a way.
 It doesn't sound like it comes from the way that you're treated. It sounds like it comes more from something you're just feeling a lack of. I wouldn't imagine it's as though you feel this is unfair. I guess the way I understand it, grad students are probably working on bigger projects that are not their own. They usually have some small piece that's kind of broken off that they're in charge of or post-docs do things that have a little more scope. It's sort of a periphery role that you do bits and pieces of other people's projects or coordinating things; but it sounds like you sort of have a want to own something. [00:33:01]
 Now that's a call you don't get every day.
 So then it's not quite right that [it's a commercial thing?] (ph)
 There may be other things. It may be a little bit of an alienation thing. It sounded like everybody else—it is something else that you're emphasizing and what you're describing is how you're sort of on the periphery. Even when you have your own project, it's sort of an out-there project or you're using a machine which is cool, but they trained you up on it because it was obscure and everybody else is doing more mainstream stuff. It's certainly another aspect of what you're describing. [00:34:20]
 Micro-array?
 Okay. Well keep talking and we'll see what happens.
 You bought a sugar bowl?
 Getting out of yourself a little bit.
 Like what? You said things you were reading about are generally things you should be doing, like workout routines.
 What sort of workout routines or dishes or . . ? [00:38:33]
 [Bit Sugar]?
 Are you a vegetarian?
 How to change?
 I guess one thing you seem to be describing is how absorbing this is. Like how big a deal this problem is with feeling out of it or having trouble concentrating or it's so often during the day.
 Well you really don't know what else to do, I think.
 [...] (inaudible at 00:43:53)
 We should stop for now. We'll talk more on Thursday.
 Yes. I'll be out next Thursday. I'm around Monday and Tuesday.
 How are you doing [PATIENT NAME]?
 Uh-oh.  Okay.
 Depressed and, and this time your depression, you said, how long you been depressed this time?
 And, you were getting any help from your family doctor, or how did you?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 So, you really are getting help for last two weeks.
 You never did get any -
 Help.  [INAUDIBLE].
 [LAUGHING].
 Yeah.  Your problem didn't go away.
 And you've not been able to work since how long?
 You don't feel hungry, don't have interest in food, or what?
 [COUGHING].
 Any crying spells?
 How is your energy?
 [COUGHING].
 [COUGHING].  What are your hobbies?  Do you take interest in your hobbies or lost that, too?
 Now how much to you weigh?  You said lost 66 pounds?  How much do you weigh?
 And how tall are you?
 Any, do you hear any voices or you just have so many thoughts that make you confused and [INAUDIBLE]?
 Do ever feel like you will kill yourself?
 [COUGHING].  So, when you took a lot of Ambien, it was not in an attempt to kill yourself.  It was attempt just to retire.
 Wanted to sleep.
 That can make you tired the next day.
 Nothing unusual has happened for you to be depressed?
 It runs in your family?
 Brother or sister, mom, dad?
 So you live alone right, you live with your child now, right?
 She's in college or she's at home?
 So how do you maintain, I mean, financially what do you do?
 [COUGHING].
 Last time when I saw you, that is the only time, of course, you were ca, talking about wanting to die and think about do, death all the time.  Is that still there?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 You, you see that the only, only way out.
 Right?  Yeah.  I see you have problem with blood pressure, too, right?
 [COUGHING].  So, are you and your mom doing better now or?
 [COUGHING].
 So why was then that you stayed with your mo, your grandmother and not your mom?  Was she busy working, or -
 And is there drug or alcohol with your mom or dad?
 Do you know anything else about your father, biological father?
 So, you and, you have other two siblings.  Right?
 They are by same dad or different?
 So, they stayed with your mom and -
 Physical?
 And he's the father of your baby?
 Okay, yeah.  So you raised all three of them on your own?
 Really.
 So, you pretty much worked [INAUDIBLE].
 Except for last two years.
 Where was that at?
 Um-hum.  For how long you work for them?
 So it take you a lot to come to me.
 But then, you didn't come back for two visits.
 Right?  You looking for a job now, or?  Any luck?
 So, [INAUDIBLE] reschedule mine.
 [COUGHING].  So you've been on that Cym, you didn't, you have not missed your Cymbalta at all?
 Yeah.
 Celexa.
 Now are you taking Ativan?
 How many did you take?
 Uh, but did you take the Celexa I gave you last time?
 And you just took it for, until you are done, and then you never did take anything?
 So, you are not on anything right now?
 How long you been without any medicine?
 Well, I'm glad you came.
 [COUGHING].  Um-hum.
 So, you started having panic attacks.  Yeah.  Now you've on Ativan.  How long have you been on it?
 Um-hum.  Was that the first time you started on that, and it did help?
 You know what?  I mean, Celexa also will help, but it takes a while.
 You didn't have any problem with Celexa, did you?
 Well, uh, let me explain to you the important thing about depression and medication.  Those medication are not like you're in an infection that you took for 10 days, and you got better, and you don't need it any more.  Antidepressant has to be taken regularly.  And sometimes it might six weeks or eight weeks, or sometimes three months before you can really tell it's going to help.
 So, if you did not have any problem with Celexa, let's just give you that back again.  We may have to go up, but then again, I have to start back again because we don't know, if you will come for weeks we would have decided, uh, that we should go up, do different thing or whatever.  So, I'm going to start there as if we are starting all over again.  This time I hope you stay with it.  Take the medication as prescribed.  If you have any problem, just give me a buzz -
 Here, any time.  Any problem, I'll answer anything, if there is any side effects of medicine I will explain to you.
 So, that's number one.  I'm going to give you the Ativan, and you use as needed.  You can take as many as four a day.
 Uh, also I'm going to give you Desyrel, it's a trazodone.  It's an antidepressant, but it also helps you to sleep.  And that I'm going to give, so you, it looks like, "Oh my God.  Am I taking three different kind of medicine?"  Right now, you may have to do that to get you at least functioning some better, and then maybe cut back.  First medicine to go would be the Ativan, because it's addicting drug.  You need to take medication, because the thing with depression is when you're getting worse, and like, you know, you got an interview, then rescheduled, you had an appointment with me twice, and you cancelled.  You take your person hygiene, like bath, and change, and, uh, or neglect the personal hygiene?
 You neglect that?  How many, how often do you take a bath?
 Well, that's all right.  Maybe that's part of your symptoms.  You don't have to be, now that, those are the important things.  So, I want you to do that.  Take the medication.  I can see you in about two weeks, and, just to reinforce what we are doing.
 And go from there.
 I would want you to, I'm still encouraging you to get you a sleep study done, too.  So -
 But we will, I mean, do you think you would come if I tell, if they did the scheduling?
 [COUGHING].  Okay.  Why don't I see you in two weeks and then we'll see how you are doing on that medicine.  And then we'll do the sleep study, too.
 Okay?  Will that work?
 Stay with us.
 Do you think of specific instances?
 No, this, this what you were just describing where she did something well and it bothered you.
 So then you feel sort of jealous or envious.
 From, from all that you said, what, what you apparently feel most strongly, or anticipate in the conferences with the mothers is that a mother of the little boys will be angry at you for what you've done with him or what you haven't done.
 Critical, right.  Saying, what have you been doing with my little boy.
 Did you feel I was saying otherwise?
 Which would be sort of critical of you then, wouldn't it?  I mean there must be that element in what you heard then.  As though I was sort of contradicting you.
 I see.
 Well, our time's up.
 So we'll start.
 Can I talk to you first about what's going to happen?
 I think I told you that I'm probably going to be leaving the first week in July, and then I'm just not sure after that. I mean I really - I just can't decide about it yet, what I'm going to do about the institute forming. In any case, I guess they're forming at the beginning of winter so you can talk to them and see if you can get on the waiting list for that. 
 Like that may be possible for you to do. And it seems pretty unlikely that I'll be doing anything this fall.
 I think a way is that you could put your name back on the waiting list. As we're talking, I feel sort of bad about not finishing out the contract. And see the reason I'm stopping at the beginning of the summer is so I can work on my dissertation, and get everything going, but it's also because I'm going to be going away for that time and [that's when they took this break] (ph).
 Oh yeah, well, if you change from me to somebody else it would be the person you'd stay with.
 So it wouldn't be two people.
 Well, what I'm feeling right now that would be okay with me is if we could definitely [be on] (ph) finishing out our 20 sessions, which would mean I guess going until that first week in May and then starting up again at the end of August. I think that would be all right with me. Oh, I've been trying to arrange my time commitment to you, but I have - but it feels right to me to do that, to finish up the 20 sessions.
 Okay.
 Fine with it, yeah.
 He's there, it's like staring you in the face, but he's the one who needs to be taking care of you.
 He said that about himself, it bothers him more?
 So you can see there's really something wrong with him up to the point where he won't even look at it.
 Just that absolutely nothing works?
 So there's the lie you're talking about is just blatantly there when you're lying in bed together.
 Sounds like you get pretty disgusted and irritated at him for keeping  - 
 Like he's really turning you off.
 And that leaves you not knowing what you can do that's right, like you're really walking on egg shells, not knowing what to do.
 So you're just kind of hanging on?
 You're not going to be the one who decides.
 You mean he'll be the one who sees that, who [makes that final line] (ph)?
 Not really look at them, you're saying, the way  - 
 At least you now have them out in the open in some way and you're not kind of sitting on them.
 So it seems like he really invested in seeing himself as a healthy person.
 So that makes it pretty useless to even hide it. [22:04]
 That seems like almost a farce that he can talk that way.
 It's not like a marriage.
 It's kind of a security. 
 You always knew you could count on him  - 
 - to be dependent on you is a lot what you're saying.
 So you knew you couldn't lose him in a way.
 From the beginning, when you were dependent on him.
 So that was kind of like with him you didn't have to deal with your own uncertainty about whether or not he'd be there.
 So first he could have put you down because you didn't do it and then he said it wasn't worth it anyway.
 What you're saying is that there really isn't any binding anyway.
 So that it doesn't make sense to have children.
 In some ways the marriage is really built on both of your insecurities and there never was any kind of mutuality.
 There's something in you that makes that want to happen. 
 Even though the marriage is rocky.
 So are you saying that's what's made things fall apart, that you spent so much time thinking about where are you going to go that you don't have time to think about what you  - 
 So it's just kind of gone downhill.
 It bothers you too, you're saying.
 It sounds like that, like nothing's faced; and half the time you think the whole thing is so terrible that you should just walk away, and half the time you think you should have a child so that could bring you together, in some magical way that would change things. It all seems very drifting and unreal.
 But it's like the kinds of things he gets wrapped up in are just ridiculous compared to the stuff that you have to face with each other. 
 That's your failure.
 So really, you like taking it all on yourself, [but it didn't] (ph) make marriage work.
 So it's almost impossible just to walk out, because that would leave you with your own sense of guilt or blame.
 Is that the same feeling as like you're wanting to know what did I do wrong? You really have to know that?
 So there's some kind of sense that you were really badly - you did really badly with this relationship, and maybe that's you, that is you, and if you don't figure out what made this one go wrong then you'll never be okay.
 Seems like you're saying with both of those. At least you feel that way.
 Are you saying you really want that to be okay and normal and healthy and something?
 It could have been just him you're saying or the way you were paired with him. It may not be something in you that is crazy, you know, or perverted.
 Sounds like all of those long years of bad feelings have really convinced you that it has to be you, it must be something that's wrong with you.
 One more thing, you just don't look at them enough.
 Um-hmm, it's causing all that pain. And you're saying otherwise it builds up to the point where you're just ready to run. So even if it means leaving him, it's time that they come out.
 So you're saying you kind of have to go past that myth he has that you're going to settle it all here and really bring these things out in the open. [55:41]
 So it's much easier for him to shut it all off and then you have to push against that pressure to shut it all off.
 And you're just left with that sort of a hanging sense of what it might be. [60:02]
 It seems like that's like the same nebula as your whole experience left you. I mean you're constantly left with this hanging sense of where is he. I mean you just don't know. You have to make up all these things in your head and  - 
 And not quite being able to do anything about it either. [61:57]
 But you're also say that you - it's kind of bringing things out in the open too, although you feel like if you bring them out in the open then that's going to be the end, so that makes you stuck. I mean you don't like where you are, but if you bring it out in the open then you're nowhere and you'd like to leave.
 And but you're making those - you're making that black and white or something. I mean like you're either sitting and bearing it or just packing up and leaving, you know, and you keep sort of fluctuating between those two.
 Oh, I think we have to stop.
 Today's the 24th?
 Okay.
 All rightie. 
 We have the way of not starting to go around and then [inaudible]... sit down and I of course have no way of knowing what's the matter with it.
 Yeah. We've finally got, after years of having old headquarters, the frog (ph) we couldn't get fixed, we got a shipment of Sony (ph) tape recorders that really worked well. I had one in this office for about a month and a half or so. Oh, do what?
 Yeah, that's true. We had some pretty antique Walls (ph) out there.
 Take them down Milton road and do what?
 Now that's an idea we didn't have. (chuckling)
 Well it's an odd time to be looking for them but I have to find my sunglasses.
 Ah, thanks. [inaudible at 0:02:57.4]... 
 I saw you blinking your eyes and it reminded me of this [inaudible at 0:03:05.7]... 
 What is the job?
 Oh.
 Oh, it sounds like right now you'd just like to go and leave it there. [In other words] (ph) [0:05:31.5]...
 ...in terms of people or anything... 
 ...for you, it's sort of empty.
 That's not just something you're witnessing but something that's really happened to you with the people here?
 Yeah, it sounds sort of like an empty forum to get together now... 
 ...because there's nothing... 
 You're making it sort of sound like there's a very driven quality to where (ph) people do here. I don't know where it, got that from but. It's like the picture I got with everybody's always rushing and their attitudes rush as well as they do. [0:10:11.3]
 How do you mean? [0:13:28.8]
 Where do you see yourself now or going, in what direction do you think it's going?
 So like there's some sort of urgency to attend to immediate things and it's like, I don't know, putting it within some sort of philosophical framework... 
 ...might be, well it would be a lot [coughing - inaudible at 0:15:26.6]... in itself but in a way it would be stupid. It feels like or like that's not what you need to be doing right now.
 Yeah, it's on a [coughing - inaudible at 0:17:39.2]... some type, kind of going into training until you're like, feel (ph) to take on whatever is out there that you have to take on.
 Oh.
 What's this, the sad things that you're kind of expecting or that I hear you...?
 Oh, I wasn't clear whether it was with her or just in an overall sense?
 Maybe? (ph) [0:19:56.1]
 Yeah.
 Well it's that (ph) one thing that occurs to me. It's like it takes a lot of time to try and find out where each other is before you can move on to...reconstitute... 
 ...the thing and how you are now, and like, you don't have that kind of time.
 Or what time you have, it's like you have to be vigilant and looking over your shoulder the whole time.
 Excuse me.
 - Hello. Yes. Yeah, I don't have...the books right now but I'm sure that we're continuing it this quarter and I think we have some in right now, so that if you need some, just put in the request to one of our doctors. Well, yeah, in this, you got mine when you asked for it before, right? Yeah, it would be a good idea, just so we know that you want it again and what the amount is. Okay? Bye-bye. - We've got this fund that a couple of us set up and it really works well. It's like people, just students, just give money if they have any extra from their fellowship and people who need it just ask for it. And yeah, it's real, like really crazy but a lot of people have gotten some funds to help them try to...get through things. And...it makes my mouth drop, because things like that just don't work, right? (both chuckling)
 All this comes up you don't see. [inaudible at 0:24:15.9]... so excuse me. Does the phone bother you?
 It often will ring during an hour.
 I know.
 You mean like, there's something attractive to thinking, well maybe attractive isn't the right word, but something sort of attractive about being able to sit off and observe the whole thing going on and not feeling that you have to participate in it?
 Like being insulated and... [0:27:14.3]
 Well it sounds like some, what you called objectivity or something, it's some sort of perspective that, or that puts things... 
 ...in places where, that prevent you from doing a certain kind of worrying or a certain kind of carrying yourself though.
 Yeah.
 That kind of makes it sound like that, kind of an overall view to provide some sort of framework and you can go walking... 
 ...around within it, no matter or whatever way you want to, but there's something firm, comfortable, maybe no comfortable but, something stable in having... 
 ...that framework.
 Oh, yeah.
 The more room you have for it?
 That's from [inaudible at 0:33:36.0]... I think.
 Like if there's some sort of stable core?
 That's what I mean.
 You're (ph) acting?
 Well when you're talking about this, does that mean that there is a [inaudible at 0:35:44.8]... sounds kind of like good luck. Do you mean that you wonder whether there's a stable core that's you or whether there's a stable, some more philosophical kind of concern?
 Oh?
 Okay, and given that the second one's true, what effect does that have on you? [0:38:29.8]
 No? (ph)
 [inaudible at 0:39:13.7]... 
 So if you're not or if your processes aren't kind of enfolded within one big structure, you still feel some sort of, I don't know if continuity is the right word but, connection is the right word.
 Yeah?
 I was laughing because my husband and I were talking last, we're listening to some record that we got about the 1960s, and we were listening to part of it and we heard Nixon back in the early '60s when he had lost another election, heard him talking. And he looked at me and I looked at him and we agreed that the guy was [inaudible at 0:44:51.5]... and we...we thought, I mean, not making a critical judgment but like, practice meant precedence (ph).
 And so what you're saying, that touched that off and it's... 
 ...made from a [inaudible at 0:45:01.5]... 
 You mean, yeah.
 [I know, I think.] (ph) [0:46:00.6]
 Yeah, I have the feeling that...like I don't catch all of it but I do catch like this overall sense that there are a lot of personal meanings connected with it.
 I don't know what they are and I don't even know if you need to...tell me, unless you want to, but I... 
 [inaudible at 0:53:42.0]... 
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Where's your stuff?
 [inaudible at 1:00:47.6]... 
 Finish this [inaudible]... 
 Oh.
 Okay, now we're at... 
 [plane flying overhead - inaudible at 1:02:47.3]... 
 Okay, yeah, why don't you do that. I can [inaudible still]... I don't know about other days. I'll give you a slip just for a Tuesday and then we can follow with... 
 Okay. [still inaudible at 1:03:17.0]... but that's too bad. (chuckling)
 Okay.
 I don't know.
 Okay.
 Bye-bye.
 Okay.
 1, 2, 3, 4 1, 2(Claps hands and snaps fingers)
 Yeah. The glare. That going to bother you you think?(Cough)
 Good morning. Okay. How are you?
 The second one?
 And that I guess it's sort of an example of being - of sort of lifting it out and saying here go take him to a therapist and have it looked at.
 Yeah.
 You get.
 I sense two things that to you - I'm not use to it. And I'm not sure I really want to. Like it's a mere question still.
 Do you want to get into that kind of thing at all.
 You really ought to know better than that. 
 Yeah.
 And you know ... that's where does this go? Where is it going? And why should it be helpful? And I guess needing something - some structure.
 Where do you want to take it?
 That's a terrible thing to say.
 Yeah.
 That almost they all become one some days? Yeah?
 You know I suddenly when you said hand strung I guess that's suddenly the picture that comes to mind. That everybody has a string that
 Ties to everybody else. And whatever end like pulls all of you. (laughs) Pulled in different directions - it could maybe get very confusing and.
 I guess.
 Feeling left out again.
 Like (inaudible at 12:41) in your eye and 
 Something. Don't beat me up.
 So your meaning would be a nothing then?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 (inaudible at 15:10)
 It's kind of underneath it. The question comes up so what's wrong with wanting to be that.
 Yeah.
 Okay like I want to be an individual.
 A real person.
 And I'm afraid or something.
 It honestly seems that way.
 No.
 Yeah like being like well she must be saying nice things about me and making me good.
 And I'm not doing that for her.
 I get - I keep getting that you had completed an awful lot of comparison with - of therapy going on or something. And it's very hard for you to see your - what you're doing here - just in terms of what's going on here. Because that. 
 And lack what?
 And lack - I think it would be very hard. Yeah when you're alone.
 I'm not saying that I don't think you can do it - should do it or that it would be possible not to do it but it's also the fact that clearly there. You know it sounds like you're feeling something like well the guilt about her ... my impression of her. But there's the jobs impression of you. And then in addition sometimes - I'm missing something here somewhere. [21:04]
 She's got something that - the way she talks about you very different and what do you say?
 Like that - like that (laughs) (inaudible at 21:13) [21:14]
 Yeah.
 No. I guess I can't say much because I've never seen him. And I've never been near all of it or interacted with him so I have no (inaudible at 22:32) at this point.
 Well usually both the - well in a lot of different ways - with the parents or separately with the child alone. And sometimes you even have family there with everybody coming in and working together. 
 Oh.
 (inaudible at 23:01)
 And I don't (inaudible at 23:35)
 Yeah but all of us expect some but you've flipped from (inaudible at 24:04) some of different (inaudible at 24:07).
 And I've found - I keep hearing too some type of a ...there is something about it being done outside the family from where (inaudible at 24:19) But saying well that's taking away something from me or putting me out of it in some what. [24:28]
 That you really don't want it. 
 So you get a little.
 So that felt good as well as lonely? But it really felt good to (inaudible at 26:16)
 But then like it feels like she's there and you have to step back because you can't.
 Can't do it you know. [It just doesn't occur to me somehow] (ph). 
 Well you know it sounds like what I do ... well I feel much more involved in what I do with this - you feel this with the family - I feel much more like.
 With the moment.
 Yeah. So (inaudible at 27:58) It's one thing with (inaudible at 28:01) you want it. And you said I've experienced it when she wasn't there. But it's still hard on the other to do it when she is there. 
 Like just sit there and say well okay and we'll act like you're not here. You go do the dishes or something and I'll put them to bed. 
 That feels very hard.
 You feel like taking it away from her sometimes?
 You feel real bond and.
 It sounds like there's a lot of - seems like shifting and changing going on that you're finding it hard to keep up with (inaudible at 31:23)
 And not wanting to lose yourself in the process.
 That's the tough one.
 Where you should go?
 (inaudible at 32:15)
 Yeah.
 Not to tell you things like why don't you keep your mouth shut and when you're out in public? And.
 (inaudible at 33:52)
 Lonely. 
 But when you feel that - like she's getting up. You're getting down. And she's getting more of everything. It really seems to cut you out.
 Feel like she's saying well you're maybe not what I thought you were? 
 So what you're really feeling is the real sense of something being pulled away from you and all of this sort of indicators that well see I am strong. And I'm the one who can really think about how to deal with these things. And somehow it feels like this is saying well you're not needed that much. You're not that strong. You're not that bigger person then.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Do you want (inaudible at 39:11) yelling at her or something.
 (inaudible at 39:15)
 And you want that - you need some place for you to just be me.
 Be strong. Be weak. And be young and be old and wise you know.
 As long as like it - the thing right now don't make - jump to some conclusion that saying I even want to be where I am. And it's just that it really hurts. 
 Yeah.
 And you had to (inaudible at 43:03) 
 Yeah.
 It's like you're putting a lot on that - even if you have to turn to someone else.
 For sexual satisfaction.
 And it sounds like saying somehow the idea of her feeling all day because she's really home (inaudible at 45:21) Very frightening with the problem. Does that mean I have to find my satisfaction some place else? [45:29]
 You're saying in a way you really would like to be able to just get patience with it.
 Right.
 It sounds like you certainly felt guilt free to being the way you feel.
 So it doesn't feel like it's that way.
 And it gets to you. Well I sense two feelings in that. It's one of maybe preventing it and that you're left with this it ties me up in knots.
 And in another (inaudible at 48:12) Like how long can this go on.
 Yeah. Where is it? [48:26]
 (inaudible at 49:04) is that what you're saying?
 Getting the feeling of being like I really might be onto something. The satisfaction of you know being.
 Yeah. Then what do I do?
 Yeah I guess I have.
 Could some way destroy.
 That's a real - well and that's you don't want to rape her either.
 But you want her to come to you and you would come to her. 
 But it sounds like feeling at this point we can't even talk about it.
 You feel like if I say anymore than it will just stop completely. She'll be gone.
 Well now what I hear you saying it's ... I'm at a point where she and I are not really fully together in some way and in some way I'd like us to go (inaudible at 54:34) But you like to be able to talk to each other more forward too. And in a way that would open the doors to being - feeling (inaudible at 54:45) what it's become. [54:46]
 But somehow still not that.
 (inaudible at 56:15)
 Actually I think (inaudible at 56:26)
 Let's see. Well I have ... you like early morning like 8 o'clock?
 I have 8 o'clock on Friday.
 Matter of fact that would be a very good time for me.
 So then it would be the 7th.
 A lot of people pretty much.
 Yeah. Do you feel like it's a lot of jumping around?
 Well sometimes I felt like stopping and saying look wait I'm not sure where you are but then I felt like I caught up so I didn't say (laughs) anything about it. But there's times where I feel like I just can't catch your thought I would want to say.
 No. I'm not even looking at it that way somehow (ph).
 Well yeah.
 What certain diagrams?
 Yeah. (laughs)
 (laughs) See if you get the last coat of treat.
 Yeah. 
 Bye.
 Hi Lucy.
LUCY: Hello.
 I'll let you start out by telling me how you've been doing?
 Why?
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Are you sleeping at night?
 Right, right.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Right.
 It's probably for them.
 It's probably their way of dealing with it.
 Well that's why it's important to tell those things to people when you're around them.
 Now [PATIENT NAME] do you, when was the last time you went to your primary care doctor?
 Your primary care doctor, like your family doctor?
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]. When did you have a check up last?
 Really? You're goin this evening?
 Does he have you on any medication?
 Okay.
 What sugar medicine?
 Okay.
 That's okay, what is your weight?
 Let me see what -
 Okay and how tall are you?
 Yeah.
 Let's see here.  Yeah you're five, let's see, yeah five, three.
 Um-hum, well it's important to recognize that when you're depressed your risk for having medical problems goes up.
 That's good. Let's see, I'm gonna Oxycodone.
 Uh-huh. 
 That's your Xanax.
 You've got one more refill? Okay. 
 Okay so we'll just do that -
 How much Oxycodone do you have?
 Huh.
 With you.
 Yeah, that's put on by some of the popular kids?
 In response to last night.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 Mmhm.
 Yeah.
 I think so; this would be like um, free of like African American nursemaid basically.
 I think in this you've brought up so far you're like a bit weary of your anger, maybe? I mean, um, not that it's there, and not for some of the causes that seem to be quite reasonable, but it sounds like you worry a little that you'll uh, like act on it too much in ways that will be, I don't know, too caustic for you or something?
 Maybe I'm missing it, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mmhm. Yeah. (inaudible at 00:09:55)
 Um, (pause), yeah it sounds to me as though (pause) it feels kind of hopeless.
 And will only result, as though it will only result in your being hurt more and maybe even worse. [00:12:59]
 Yeah. Um, and at the same time, and I guess this is what you were talking about yesterday, you have you know there's a strong part of yourself, part of yourself that you kind of are quite proud of... Uh, that's ready to really you know stand up and let her know what you think and what's wrong with what she wrote and how she's looking at things and, I guess I imagine that may have something to do with why your reaction was such a physical one is because I think that the part of yourself that matters a lot to you, and um, that there's something about the way that it could uh, lead you to be hurt further. That's sort of hard to reconcile, maybe even hard to think about such that you know, you just felt like taking a nap. [00:14:31]
 Um, (pause), I can imagine why you stuck with the church had something to do with all of that as well.
 A couple of those that occur to me are, um, that it can be hard to have the confidence to find something better where people would actually sort of act in ways you valued more or did not act in ways that you you know, perhaps found so incredibly offensive and you know like problematic. And importantly where what you thought or you saw things was paid much closer attention in general. [00:16:30]
I don't mean, attentive as opposed to ignore, just um like, you know you could jump up and down and wave your arms and shout in a lot of these settings in church and like, you know, it, it wouldn't make a difference.
 Oh good.
 Right.
 Mmhm.
 They're emerging.
 Sure. (pause) But it is then about more a mixed bag than the way I was giving credit for being in that there have been times where um, what you said, that it has been heard and taken into account. [00:20:17]
 So that's possible too.
 The other thing I wondered about is whether you feel um, no matter how entrenched, some of the problems, a real responsibility to fix them and to stick around.
 Until they're fixed.
 Sure.
 What if it felt that way to you? And?
 It also sounds like, you're feeling more distant from, I guess that aspect of your spiritual life. [00:22:48]
 Like, less clear, what you're called to do now.
 I just, um, largely for at least in some term because of you know, having needed to focus on school stuff and crisis mode.
 I guess what I'm saying is, that sounds pretty clear, although there are things that are not. Um (pause) which I don't know to me, sounds important period. To set your sense of love?
 Well that uh, (pause) you're not feeling as kind of spiritually connected as you often have.
 Sure.. Sure...not a problem.
 What's it like?
 Uh, it sounds to me; you're reminiscing in a lot of what you grew up with. Not in terms of religion but in terms of school.
 Uh, if you weren't doing the best at every possible thing that you were doing, you were clearly fucking up.
 And um...
 Yeah it's not about misunderstanding or limitations that in some sense reflect badly on you personally or um, you know some sort of respectable ebb and flow.
 It was, sinfulness and character in here, but usually mortal as far as I can tell.
 Does any of that, it doesn't sound like that translates to your relationship with Julia, I guess I just want to make sure that in other words, you know, she isn't great at being in charge. I don't have the impression you're blaming yourself for how she's acting towards you. It sounds like you're just critical and pissed off.
 Ok. Yeah. (pause) What else comes to mind? [00:31:12]
 Uh huh.
 What are you thinking about writing?
 Right.
 Mmhm.
 And it also honestly, it doesn't sound to me like you feel anxious about writing to her about the class aspects of it, at least not any more so than any of the rest of it.
 Uh huh. (pause). I'm still going strategic.
 Right. (pause) Like being depressed generally rather than being upset about X, Y, and Z.
Pause at [00:36:16] to [00:36:50]
 Mark, sorry.
 And especially with the way that you can be pretty second guessing of yourself around these things. And I think don't easily feel sort of at ease about yourself in the midst of dealing with these things.
 And, like reassurance and support, you're really denied. Am I being helpful? (inaudible at 00:38:21)
 I have the impression you feel somewhat on your own some of, I mean some of your friends agree with Julia being ridiculous which sounds like it was quite helpful to you. Yeah.
 Mmhm.
 I think so too. Yeah.
 (pause) I'm not sure you were really allowed much in the way of feelings growing up.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 It's one thing if there's like with different cultural aspects of that, where in other words, it's not ok to loudly proclaim ones feelings, but there are kind of, it's ok to have them and as long as you express them in the right way they're ok. And there's some acknowledgement that that's ok.
 I don't have the sense there was that. In other words like, well as long as you weren't loud about them and you know, you weren't trying to offend anyone with them that was cool. You know, it was more, my impression is more like that dimension of your being is not all right.
 But I...
 I would hope so.
 Sure.
 Horrible. (pause) We should stop for now, but we'll talk more next week.
 Client 0222-115, Interview number 20. 
 No, not at all.
 We might be interrupted by a phone call.
 (chuckles) 
 I recall a lot of frustration.
 And not as much content.
 Where does that leave you? 0:05:02.5
 It is like hard to maintain some ideals if you don't get any reinforcement for holding them or something. 0:06:02.3
 Because you don't see yourself presenting yourself in that way.
 Hmm. 
 Did you get any more information about it?
 Yeah, like..
 Uh huh.
 Yeah, it all sounds like all that self comfort, but right now your having a hard time drumming up any kind of enthusiasm. 
 You know two people that sort of know you saying that, is kinda like heavy evidence except that you, it sounds like it's just really foreign to you. Like you know you feel rotten sometimes but you just don't..
 Uh huh.
 Hmm.
 You mean that he thinks they're always making excuses for themselves or..
 Hmm.
 And that might be the case with you?
 Hmm.
 What's in that, what's in that shattered, like just really being puzzled about what they mean, or feeling awful if that's the case?
 Uh huh. Like where are they getting the evidence for this or what..
 What's your behavior that they think that's it or something.
 It's almost like it would be good to sit each one of them down and say "All right now exactly what do you mean? What was it that made you think that. How did I act? What did I look like?"
 What happens when, you keep it in yourself or do you lash out or? Like does anybody know you're short tempered?
 It that part of your reaction hearing the business about being self pitying from both of them, being angry? 0:21:08.3
 Um hmm. It's like things become irritants very easily if you're upset at something else.
 Yeah, I had that image a minute ago of you throwing a bottle against a wall or something like that.
 Yeah, it's like some kind of thing, it's like it's this unfocused bitterness or rages just wells up in you and you have to do something. It's not even, there are no even thoughts to.. 22:19.3
 You know it reminds me of those clowns that children have you know that they bat around and they're weighted on the bottom, you smack them down and they come up. 0:23:27.2
 Well that's the sleep of, it sounds like, kinda like the sleep of depression. 0:25:37.0
 Hmm.
 You really are strapped. [ph]
 Hmm.
 I'm with you.
 I wasn't sure whether you thought that it was good that you stayed there for some reason even though you hadn't wanted to or whether you were saying it would have been better if you had just taken up and left the first time (we talked). [ph]
 I guess what I'm hearing is well there's not much enjoyment in this stubbornness, but there is something that..
 Yeah, yeah. There's something good about being able to stick it out even though these situations are sort of blah.
 Are you saying something like, what passes for learning in school, I found out really isn't learning. Now I know more what...
 It's like you've experienced, I think you're saying you've experienced the process of learning but not maybe the same subject matter, but there's something about grasping things better. 0:36:25.1
 Yeah and it feels a lot different from just cramming in enough to get by, get that grade and then forget it the next minute or whatever. 
 Hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Hmm.
 I don't know. He'll probably call you up and try and do it at your convenience. 
 You mean of, of, you're results or results of the whole thing?
 I don't even know myself at this point. Because I figured I'd like wait until I wasn't involved in it and then find out (inaudible at 0:43:12.6) myself. If you want to know you should ask him and maybe when he gets something he'd let you know. 
 Yeah. 
 You're speaking to a Ranger fan. 
 Yeah I think we're going to get beat tonight. 
 Rangers.
 We don't have (inaudible at 0:45:02.2)
 That's fine with me.
 That's one way I've got, you know you talk about strategies of getting through living in the city. That's been one of my strategies. I hate all the Chicago teams.
 Love all the New York teams. My husband and I go out to Wrigley Field when the Mets come but, yell and scream and you know it's (inaudible at 0:45:40.0)
 Hmm that's low. 
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
I think we're going to have to stop.
 What's going on?
 Yeah.
 I was going to say at what point, like do you get up to okay now it's time to study. It's 2:00.
 And you still do like a, how close do you get to starting?
 Eleven days is probably not too early.
 I feel (inaudible at 00:05:16). I know you know that. I was thinking (inaudible).
 Yeah, you've mentioned that a number of times.
 Well there must be, I mean, there must be some transition for "I should study" to "I'm not going to study." Like there has to be some reasoning that goes between that, those -
(CROSSTALK)
 And what do you think when you procrastinate?
 Well it seems like you go back and forth between feeling like attributing it to something going on inside, but then also the things going on outside like other responsibilities, not feeling well. But it seems like you go back and forth between those two explanations.
 Well it seems like on the one hand you really want to go to the next stage of your life and take on more responsibility and on the other hand when I listen to you it seems like you feel bogged down by responsibility.
 It's not a requirement what you're doing?
 Yeah, do you, so do you feel like you're often hot-headed?
 When did you notice a reversal taking place, today or last night?
 Do you think that this is a walled-up little place?
 What might you have done if you were high enough?
 Our time's up.
 November 16, side two, track two, side two, track two, November 16.
 I don't remember.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 I kinda sense maybe it's from your tone of voice that you're feeling kinda, is it somewhat down today or is it just quiet and mellow? 
 Yeah, today. 
 Um hmm.
 I guess what I was responding to is you talked about your wife. And when you were talking about your fights and your arguments and about that night, it didn't kinda feel like it had the agitation that it had when you were talking about it before.
 No. When you're talking about it now. 0:06:07.0
 When you say that, when you say that picking on me, you smile. Why? I don't, I mean I don't understand, I don't get the connection. Maybe you don't realize you smile but when you said...
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 How do you feel about that? The way you were?
 Yeah. 
 Um hmm.
 You mean, so it's kinda like, you kinda have, feel like you start to become and act the kind of way you don't want to act to kinda get through or something. 
 I guess it's get through sharply in a way too.
 It's also get through sharply. 
 Pimping on her?
 Um hmm..
 Um hmm.
 Yeah, I kinda sense like, I sense it gets into a bad cycle or something. Or vicious cycle. 
 Like you want to tell her something and you find yourself doing more and more intent to punish and hurt. 
 Her reaction kinda reinforces that. 
 It kinda sounds like it builds both of you each build that kinda to force the other to do that too. Like your doing that leads her to not only react the way to what you're saying but then get on you later. 
 Um hmm. 0:10:26.0
 Um hmm. 
 You could see your wife driving nails into you.
 It was like you could really feel her driving nails into you. And you felt really helpless and that enraged you. 0:11:00.7
 No, I didn't mean, I guess I didn't mean to suggest the martyred aspect.
 I just meant to suggest the pain aspect. 
 Putting you down.
 Um hmm. 
 Um hmm.
 What do you mean dig? Do you mean dig in the like happy way? Or dig in a bad way?
 Make you feel uncomfortable. 
 She did to you what you hate when they do to you.
 Yeah. 
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm..
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 I think you should say her friend the way you ...
 It was kinda like there was this Holy alliance against you. 
 Um hmm. It's really like these two people are hovering over you kinda hammering at you. 
 Um hmm.
 So it was like you were really caught in a bind because you really felt angry but almost felt like you couldn't get angry because they would say, "Ha! See what we mean?"
 Yeah. It was kinda like you really felt helpless. Like you couldn't defend yourself in a way? Like..
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm. 
 Well let me, I 'm not sure about that. 
 There, ok.
 Um hmm. What did you say? What was the talk about? 
 Um hmm.
 Yeah. Well like right there, how do you feel that, why can, you can get angry but can't, I'm wondering if you, you see like when you get angry you lose your effectiveness. I mean like when someone's knocking do you get angry and you knock at them. And it's generally not that productive. 
 It may be satisfying momentarily. 
 But in terms of better relationships, it's not that satisfying. I'm wondering though if you really feel like your wife's knocking away at you, can't you just kinda say to her, you know like, "You're making me feel bad. Do you see what you're doing?" Not in an accusatory angry way. But just showing her kinda in a, it's almost like trying to put aside the, instead of reacting out of anger, react out of kind of an understanding or something. 
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Well it sounds like that procedure lets the things do their effect. 
 And then you try to patch it up.
 Um hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you know I'm going to have to, as you've talked about how you feel when you feel angry I really have gotten the sense that there just is one hell of a moltenous pool of anger down in there somewhere. 
 That comes out and it explodes or erupts sometimes. 
 There really is a lot of anger inside of you. 
 Um hmm.
 So yeah. Is what you're saying like, "I really kinda felt that I had to keep them in in a way because I was never able really to establish that kind of communion where my feelings can be expressed and recognized."
 And I can be accepted for my feelings. I mean I kinda sense that you ...
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 It's like you're not being recognized. 0:25:30.1
 And I also detected something else in there too. When you were talking about your mother, maybe I thought I heard, I kinda detected a note of sadness like that like you as a person and your feelings to find you just kinda haven't been recognized. 
 So it's, what you mean is like, in terms of establishing like you being able to express your feelings to your mother I guess, it's like something, an attitude like they fall on deaf ears in a way. And she doesn't express hers and..
 Yeah. And it's kinda like there's an aloneness in there or something. 
 Just going around being lonely with people supposedly close to you but still really very distant from you. You're very distant from them. Kinda like you're alone with your feelings inside of your world but not with, you haven't been able to be with people with those feelings and be appreciated and responded to.
 Um hmm.
 You kinda recognized it could hurt her and felt a responsibility not to. 
 Yeah I guess that's what I really..
 Yeah. It's like you never kinda, it's like it pissed you off and I guess it made you feel sad and lonely too because it's like a place that's supposedly a thing that should have been meaningful, a meaningful relationship, was kinda closed off to you to really express yourself and kinda be there with your feelings in that relationship and have them listen to you and respond to you. Kinda like you were really cut off. Shut out. 0:29:52.6
 Um hmm. 0:32:24.2
 Um hmm.
 Yeah. 
 It's like yeah, they had..
 They had been built up and accumulating. Like you accumulated this reservoir wanting to share those feelings and have them there for someone, someone there to listen to them. 0:33:35.3
 Then listen too much, that reservoir kinda was too much to drown her in a way.
 Um hmm.
 Live up to an image. 0:34:59.4
 Well do you feel like, like that you communicated that to her? That which would frighten her? 
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm. 
 Um hmm. 
 Um hmm. 0:36:18.2
 Um hmm. Couldn't hold..
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 It sounds like when you talk about it, it's like that you really see but that you've got a hell of a lot of needs and feelings inside of you that is a big responsibility. You don't know if anyone could handle them.
 I'm certainly hearing, kinda like you're felt very lonely but you felt very sad and lonely because no one's ever really been there to handle them. And you won't hear them. 
 Um hmm.
 I really get a sense from what you're saying that is, like right now I really, "I do feel alone because it's like I still don't have the kind of person who I feel like I can share myself with and that can meet my needs too." 
 I guess the matter of fact of it is it's like you're living your life with your wife and people but it's, but you know it's with people, it's not a real meaningful oneness. I guess it's kind of a loneliness.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 It's like in a way you feel like with your wife you talk about wanting that kind of intimacy that you're missing but it's like you don't do it or have it with her. And you don't structure your life so to try to work towards having it in a way. 
 Why? Is it because you're afraid of if you're alone it's not going to be the way you'd really like it to be like?
 Um hmm.
 It's kinda like you see, like the times you spend..
 Yeah. The times you spend together, it's like as every day goes by it's like you haven't confronted it and found it with your wife or, and it's like you're still lonely.
 And kinda see the days going by. Your feeling is torn because you want to confront it but yet don't or are scared about it. And that effect of you always like you see the time goes by and you're still where you are and still missing. Still missing really being able to be with someone in a meaningful, communal way. 0:44:16.6
 What do you mean empty?
 I sense kind of like the more you've talked, am I right like the, some of that sadness came up and alone. The feeling of sadness with that loneliness?
 And what do you feel now? 
 And what do you feel now? 
 I see. I mean you kinda get a sense of what your life is, it feels kinda empty and sadness for the things you want and just..
 I kinda hear, I kinda hear what you're saying is, "I have this feeling of sadness but I'm not sure how much I trust it or my coloring it. 
 No, but..
 Yeah. And I guess kinda what I was responding to was, I felt like you were saying you had been kinda trying to say well, I mean because I guess I really sense that feeling in you. I guess what I was responding to was when you (inaudible at 0:48:35.6). I kinda got the sense that you were shoving it somewhere. Do you see what I mean?
 It's like it felt real but then, "Well maybe it's not so real because I'm tired."
 How does that hit you?
 Um hmm.
 Yeah because I really did sense as you were talking I mean, I sensed it especially when you weren't talking. And you were kinda sitting there so like tasting in a way that you really did feel sad. A very quiet soft kind of despair, I guess. It's like that. Empty. 
 Yeah. 
 Um hmm.
 Yeah. It's like you don't want them to be far back. You want them to be able to be there and for you just to be with them. And for them to be with you. 0:51:58.9
 Feeling kinda empty and sad too? Where are you? What are you feeling?
 Um hmm. You mean like you would think about things and get angry and then some things go through you mind and you feel unhappy? 
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm. Yeah I had the sense as you sat there it was kinda like I could see things going through your mind and just kinda sense something just provoked kinds of feelings in you. Sad feelings. Angry feelings. 
 Um hmm. What do you feel about that? 
 What do you feel about that? 
 Yeah, it's like, I sense that you're kinda sadness, your sense of sadness about the things you feel sad about, the things you're missing. It's like the sadness is very temporary. And like the sadness inside of you turns to, over what you don't have turns to anger and resentment about not having them. It's kinda like the sadness is there but it just becomes anger. Is that what you're saying? 0:58:09.4
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. The emotional need I guess is really wanting to have had them different.
 Really wanting to have had them different. 
 And things flash through your mind and they're not different. There's sadness and anger over it. Which you missed, don't have. Our time is up.
 And thank you very much.  Yeah, [DATE] can you believe it?
 That's perfect, yeah, right where it says signature of person, and our names are both on it, so -
 That's perfect.  So you have a new job.
 Congratulations.  Tell me more.
 But you knew him from before?
 I thought so.  I thought -
 I remember you mentioning him.
 Oh my goodness, talk about timing.
 Oh wow.
 It's almost like it's just meant to be.
 Oh, you could just see this big smile on your face.
 Wow, you are amazing.
 [DEIDENTIFIED]?  You're kidding.  Is the whole office going to set up there?
 I bet he's so glad you came along when you did.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That could be nice to be closer to the hospital and just more of a medical -
 Setting.
 Wow.
 So you -
 You're able to have more responsibility it sounds like.
 Fantastic.
 Wow.
 A lot of offices have the computerized medical record now, and they're saying that's the way it's going to go in the future.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That's fantastic.
 It's so great to have it all in one place and then if that person ever went to the hospital -
 Or another doctor's office.
 It's going to turn out to be a good move.
 Wow.
 Wow, so that's quite a commute.
 But then again, you know -
 You're there for a while, and you know.
 Two months.  Oh my gosh.  So you got this right after the last time we met.
 No wonder I missed you.  Okay.
 Yeah.
 Good for you.  We could keep you at the last appointment -
 Of the day, you know -
 Yeah, that's right around 4:15, 4:30.
 That's wonderful.
 Wow.
 I'm sure he's just glad that you're helping out, that you're, you know -
 Wow.
 That's right.  Yeah.
 Yes.
 I know.  You often put your own needs right on the back burner.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 Oh, frustrating.
 Of course.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Wow.
 That's good.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Wow.
 That's excellent.
 Now that he's sleeping better and you're sleeping better, are you finding that your attention and concentration are better?
 Like you can focus on things at work, not feel as distracted?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 It builds up.
 Um-hum.
 Right, right.
 Wow.
 It's so sad.
 Right.
 Wow.
 She was, yeah.
 That's right.
 Exactly.
 Yes.
 Those are supposed to be nice.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Yes.  She wanted out.
 I know, and she still stays kind of -
 Stuck on him.
 Yikes.
 Oh boy.
 It was.
 Oh wow.
 Oh boy.
 Of course.
 Yeah.
 Oh my goodness.  I would have been really upset too.
 Oh my goodness.
 Wow.
 Oh, bless your heart.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 I said not now, I told you before.  I mean his mother's not pushing him.
 Because if his mom would push him out the door, he would find a job.
 Nope.  No.  His mother goes to work at 6:00 or 7:00 in the morning, comes back in the afternoon, doesn't say anything.  So even his, his sister, he has a [AGE] sister, 2 babies.
 [AGE], 2 babies, one's [AGE], and another one [AGE].
 It's, it's not going to change.
 So I'm telling her.  I talk to her.  I don't know what, what else to tell her.  I, I talk to her and talk to her, and then she says, she tries to bring me my past.  I said we're not talking about me.  I'm talking about you.
 I already lived.  You, you're just growing up.
 Yeah.
 Oh yeah.
 Yes, um -
 I haven't heard from the doctor.  I'm going to have to call -
 And make an appointment again because they were supposed to call me for a biopsy.
 And they, they never called me.
 Do you have medical insurance yet?
 Okay, good.
 You can get your prescriptions?
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Will you be able to get your prescriptions?
 Good.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Good.  Oh, that's wonderful.  So you are getting the generic of that.
 It's helping you sleep, and, um, I chose the Lexapro so it would sit okay with your other medicines and not cause too much interference -
 In your liver.
 Because we've been through the Zoloft.
 Trazodone, Remeron, um, some Seroquel, Risperdal.
 And none of those things really sat very well with you, and plus we don't want there to be a situation where it gets in the way of your attention and your concentration.
 And not letting that work.
 Good.
 All right.
 I didn't know that.
 Wow.
 Does she have problems with her attention deficient as well?
 Wow.  Sometimes they, they do travel together.
 Wow.
 Bless your heart.  Well I think you realize sometimes it's the illness talking too.
 Out of all the people in your family, yeah.
 Yeah.
 You could be Mother Theresa and she'd get upset.
 And of all the people in your family, you've always taken the biggest responsibility both for the family and for dealing with what you're struggling with.
 You know, if there's depression, we work to find an antidepressant that works well.
 When there's attention deficient, we look for something that sits well with your medication -
 Your, um, liver condition.  Um, you've been very resourceful.  You know, the Ambien you've had off and on 3 years.
 And now that it's generic -
 You know, it's even more available.
 And it doesn't last in your system and get in the way of your -
 Attention during the day.
 So you've found a good balance -
 That's pretty kind to your liver too.
 Um, and so when you do get that biopsy done, I'll work together with your primary doctor.  We'll make sure -
 You're staying as healthy as you can -
 With the set of medicines that puts the less amount of stress on your liver.
 So you could make a first thing in the morning doctor's appointment -
 Which is good because you usually can get in and out.
 You know -
 Oh, too bad.
 So you were there for 9:00 and they -
 And you sat there for an half and an hour.
 Oh, that's awful, [PATIENT NAME] that's awful.
 You were there.
 Oh, that's awful.
 It's so frustrating.
 I'm sorry.
 That's smart.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Because I thought you would have results for me today.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Oh my word.
 Oh my word.
 Have you had problems with your teeth before?
 This is the first I've heard you talking about that.
 That can do it.
 Oh no.
 Oh my word.
 That sounds like an infection.
 Okay, good.  How long did he give you the Bactrim for?
 Okay.
 Yes.
 Until it's gone.
 Exactly.
 Good.
 Good.
 You have some good people on your side.
 It looks so much better -
 Than what you're describing.
 Good.  You take it till it's gone.
 You follow his, his directions exactly.
 Right.
 Good.
 Oh, you must have felt awful.
 Could you use a lorazepam prescription just to fill before you go because some of my special needs patients I do that sometimes.
 You know, they get really anxious.
 Yeah.
 Have you ever taken anything before a doctor's appointment before which helps?
 You know -
 Sure.
 I'll give you a prescription for some lorazepam.  That's Ativan.  If you've ever heard of that -
 It's a little bit similar to Ambien.
 Um, but it's more often that people take it when they're awake before a doctor's appointment.  It lasts about 6 to 8 hours.  It's very relaxing.  Um, it's a benzodiazepine like Ambien is.
 Um, so when you go to that appointment, you probably want to have somebody else drive.
 You may be drowsy, and I mean between that and the dental sedation and so forth, um, but what I could do is write for a couple of doses -
 That you could try beforehand and just make sure that it agrees with you.
 But I think it will based on your response to the Ambien.  It's good to your liver.
 You know, it doesn't stay in your liver as long as something like Valium or clonazepam.  You know, this is very common to have before a procedure.
 And it would sit okay with your Lexapro, with the Ambien.
 Um, with medication for the attention.  Um, so, you know, those would all be okay together.
 And even if you have a little bit of liver compromise.
 You know, the medicine for attention deficient also -
 Are broken down very quickly.  We don't use an extended release.
 Right.  You've got your work cut out for you.
 Yes.
 Definitely.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Do you get a lot of stomach upset?
 Is that also since the Lexapro?
 Yeah.
 Has that been true for a long time?
 Has that been true the whole time we've been working together?
 Because we've changed medicines a few times -
 And I don't remember it being more or -
 Or less bad.
 That's right, you had some diarrhea with the Zoloft.
 Huh.
 Ah ha.
 It's possible.
 It could be.
 Um-hum.
 Yes.
 Hmm.
 You may be right.  You could very well be right.
 Sometimes.
 Yeah, once in a while.
 Get them to bring fruit, like they can get those little -
 Fruits things at Wawa.
 Really?
 Wow.
 That's really nice.
 He's very healthy.
 Good.
 That's excellent for you.
 Wow.
 Right.
 Wow.
 I'm not going to tell you about that Big Mac, no way.
 That's pretty healthy.
 That's not too bad.
 He's looking out for you.
 Oh good.  Well you are what you eat like they say, right?
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That's good advice.
 Wow.
 What a healthy man.
 Wow.
 Probably green tea.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 That's really something.
 You've got a good example there in front of you -
 With a healthy lifestyle.
 Wow.  He knows what he's doing.
 Wow.
 I bet his cholesterol looks good.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 He may have a long life ahead of him.
 Yeah, wow.
 Sure.
 Wow.  I'm sure he's thrilled to have you there helping out.
 That's so great.
 Do I know who this is?  Is it doctor, does his last name start with an M?
 I know him.  He's great.
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] yes.
 Excellent, and I can see him appreciating you.  That's excellent.
 Yes.  I like him very much.
 Yeah, well I can see why.  He's very dedicated.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That's excellent.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That's someone who really makes a difference.
 Really?
 Interesting.
 Wow.
 Well, I'll have to look into that.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 Excellent.
 And it sounds like she needed to gain to a few pounds.
 I'm sure she could afford that if she's a normal height.
 Wow.
 That's fantastic.
 That's such good news.
 You're part of that team that's making a difference.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Now [PATIENT NAME] could I be doing more for you?  In other words, um, I hear that out of the various symptoms and concerns, the depression is the biggest.  At this point -
 In time -
 You're sleeping.  You're concentrating during the day, but you're full of sadness.
 I understand.  Some things -
 You want to keep private, definitely.
 Right.
 For reasons of finances, do you still need samples?
 Okay.
 Right.
 What I would ordinarily suggest is considering going up from 10 to 20 on the Lexapro unless you're feeling strongly about considering the Zoloft again, if you think that that sat better with you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 It's hard to find samples of the Zoloft now.
 Is the generic affordable?
 Because Zoloft is pretty kind to your liver as well.
 And if you weren't having the constipation problems, the bloating and that kind of thing -
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And it does sit well with your other medicines?
 Okay.
 Let's go back to it then.
 And if for some reason it doesn't pan out, we could look into going to Lexapro 20.
 I'd love to, you know, get a better handle on what's going on with the liver, you know.
 How are your medicines sitting together.
 Yes.
 That is exactly what this paperwork is about.
 Which I have.
 So we can work on that together, and one of the staffers here too.
 Um-hum.
 Ei yi yi.
 Do you still want to -
 Go for it, or what do you think we should do?
 I see.
 How about if I go back, is it [NAME OTHER] in the back who's working with you -
 With the blonde hair?  I'm so bad with names.  Why don't -
 Okay.
 Okay.
 All right.
 I'll see if I can find her.
 I'm going to, um, shut this off for now, go back, talk with her and figure out if we need to, you know, put our heads together on the paperwork or if we just say, you know, maybe you don't need to go to the court hearing.  I mean if you're working.  You're happy.
 You want to tell the truth when you're up there on the stand -
 You know.  This was a fallback.
 Yes.
 So you're getting some relief from the chronic pain as well.
 Right.
 Okay.  Yes, exactly.
 That's a busy office where you are.  I know [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 I know exactly what you're talking about.
 Yeah.  But as long as you get paid for overtime.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Keep track of all your hours.
 Yeah.  You should get paid for the time that you work.
 Oh, bless your heart.
 Oh.
 Yes.
 And even though I know [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], everything's confidential, you know.
 You know, it's totally up to you -
 If you tell him that we work together or not -
 That's totally up to you.
 He's used to a staff that, you know -
 Is going to jump, but if you have an appointment, you have an appointment.
 You did well to get here.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Oh, that's good.  You all are looking out for each other.
 That's excellent.
 Yeah.
 I have an appointment.
 And you could also say I've already done 77 hours this week.  I don't want to overdo it, and that would point out to him you're working really hard.
 Good.
 Good, and that might build a break into your day.
 And with some of the stress.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Hmm, well then you have to say listen [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] tomorrow when you exceed your 80 hours, say [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] I just want you to know I've just exceeded my 80 hours.  I don't want to go doing a lot of overtime without your permission.
 I can help this weekend, however, I do need to be compensated for my time.  I'm supporting my family pretty much single handedly.
 So, and I'm sure he will understand.
 Yes.
 Um-hum.
 That's a long day.  That's a very long day.
 Well, I think your lunch break is good, and maybe you could run some errands in there, and -
 And not have it be like a solid 12, 13 hour day.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Because if you're going to do overtime, you need authorization.
 Well, you deserve to be, so.
 Yeah, that's probably getting -
 Settled in the new job.
 Yes.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, I've seen it.
 I know what you're talking about.  He's got many patients in there at once, all different rooms.
 It's like a clinic and he does it all himself.  It's amazing.
 Um-hum.
 That's amazing.
 Amazing.
 It's a full service.  It really is, full service practice.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Well, that'd be good if it's somebody who's familiar with -
 How things work and, you know, what, [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]'s goals are.
 Yes.  Yeah, you can't do all that on your own.
 [LAUGHING].
 It sure is.  Between his diet and his energy level -
 He's always going to be fit.
 Ah.
 It's a clever system, clever.
 Well, there's a lot to keep track of.
 It sounds like you're doing a good job.
 [LAUGHING].
 Well it's up to you.  If you tell him it's me, he'll understand.
 He'll understand.
 She sends her best regards.
 But that's totally up to you.  You know, again it's your confidential -
 But he is a good soul and -
 You know.
 Yeah, oh yeah.
 You have a stressful job.  It's a fulfilling, exciting job, but stressful and you need to protect your time, you know.  Yeah, definitely.
 Right, exactly -
 Especially since you've put in so much time already this week.  It's amazing.
 Yes.
 Let him know.
 Let him know -
 Because if he wants you to come in on Saturday, there needs to be an agreement, you will be paid overtime for that.
 Yes, you have to.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.  Exactly and if you are willing to work some overtime opportunities -
 You can let him know, but that definitely needs to be arranged in advance -
 Because of your family responsibilities, which are huge.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 Right, yeah.
 Oh, okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 That's good.
 It keeps your skills up.
 You know, and sometimes having a couple of options is good too.
 It sounds like that might be a little more relaxing than 4 hours at [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]'s.
 Maybe.  Yeah.
 I bet.
 Oh, I bet.
 Right.  Right.
 Exactly.
 And that's what added to your overtime, so.
 He's got to realize, yeah.
 Exactly, which he asked you to do.
 Yeah.
 Well, you're responsible to point that out.  You're -
 Doing the right thing.
 Exactly.  You want to be sure it's all above board, and he understands what he's getting into too.
 Well, that's [INAUDIBLE].
 Exciting developments.  Ah.
 Interesting.
 Wow.
 Good.
 That's nice.
 Excellent.
 That's nice.
 Wow.
 Good news.
 Yeah, and new ones will come too.
 Yeah.  Word travels fast -
 If somebody's good.
 Right, right.
 Yes, true.
 He is definitely.  I mean I'd go to him.  I think he's good.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.  Yeah.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 You got to keep the office running, you know.
 You have to be able to get your fees.
 To keep things running.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 All right.  Well in the meantime, let me give you these prescriptions.
 I'm going to give you some extra refills also.
 There's some flexibility with the followup appointment.
 I know you're getting started in a new job, so unless you feel like you need to come back sooner, you just call -
 We'll fit you in sooner.  I'm going to shut this off and go double check in the back what we should do about that court paperwork.
 [NAME OTHER], that's it.
 Perfect.
 All right, I'll go track her down.
 Okay.  So how are things going?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh good.  Do you remember what you're taking?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Is this the first time you tried it?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Yes.  How often are you getting migraines?
 Okay, so it's been about 5, 6 weeks.  Okay.
 All right.  And how are your spirits holding up?  You doing okay, or do you still feel pretty sad, blue, or -
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sleeping well?
 How much sleep are you getting a night?
 Good.  And then do you feel rested in the morning?
 Good.  And then is your energy level okay during the day, or do you feel tired?
 How much are you weighing?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Huh.
 Is your appetite increased where it used to be, or are you eating different kinds of food, do you think?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 I understand.
 Where is he now?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh, which camp did she go to?
 Oh, did she have a good time?
 Oh good.
 Nervous about her going?
 Oh.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it is a hard thing, for a lot of parents, it's the first time their kids are gone that long.
 But then -
 And usually the kids do great, it's the parents that have the hard time -
 The kids are having so much fun.
 Yeah.
 Oh, good.  So she had a good time?
 Good.
 Good.  Have you been feeling anxious at other time much, [PATIENT NAME], or not too much?  Yeah?  About anything in particular or just things in general?
 So you start worrying a lot?  Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh, no.
 Who is she, who is she going to see for counseling?
 Okay, where is she?
 Oh, okay, good.
 Um-hum.
 Good.
 Right, that's a good idea.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 With another kid bullying?
 Oh.
 Oh.
 She's knocking.
 She's okay.  I locked this door [INAUDIBLE].  [NAME OTHER] is everything okay?
 Okay, just a second.
 I guess she wasn't knocking.  I thought she was.
 Oh, okay.  Well, that's good to see.
 Oh.
 Yeah, kids can just be cruel sometimes.
 Okay.
 Sure, yeah.
 Oh really?
 Hm.
 Huh.
 Okay, so you're getting it worked out at least.
 Good.  That's -
 Good.  Okay.  So a lot of stress, but you're dealing with it pretty well, it sounds like, [PATIENT NAME].  Um -
 One day at a time.
 Sometimes that's what it takes, yes.  Are you getting some enjoyment out of the things you're doing during the day, or do you feel like you're just kind of going through the motions?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Are you having any suicidal thoughts?  Okay, good.
 Okay.
 Okay.  Well then, I don't remember, was he getting any help for his depression or -
 Oh.
 Okay.
 Yeah.  Well, you know, it's so hard these days because there is so much depression going around and people don't get help.  It's just awful.
 Well, you know, a lot of people wouldn't, but the good news is there is help for depression.  You don't have to struggle.
 It will.  It will, and also, I mean, you're setting a good example for [NAME OTHER], to know that in her life if there's trouble, she can get help with it.  She doesn't have to suffer, so -
 That's right, that's right.
 Good.
 Oh.
 Did it check out okay?
 Um-hum.
 Oh.
 Okay.
 Well, okay.
 That's what I hear.  I hear it's not fun.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 And who is your family doctor?
 Okay, that's right.
 Yes, did he have any recommendations on what to do about the arthritis or anything?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh, CPAP?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, so you've got a lot going on right now, [PATIENT NAME].
 Yeah.
 Well, the good thing is you're dealing with it.  You're taking care of yourself and that's, that's important.
 What about the medication, Lexapro?  Any problems with it at all?
 Like a nauseous feeling?
 Oh, like anxiety?
 Okay.
 Okay.  And the Seroquel, you're still using that at night?
 And how many are you taking?
 Okay.  Now that could be contributing to weight gain, just to warn you.
 Yeah, and you know, you're not, it's not something you have to panic about or do anything about right away, but if your weight does keep going up, we might want to look at that because I've seen people, who if they didn't stop it, gain a lot of weight, so -
 And there are alternatives we could look at.
 Good, good.
 Good.  So, are you okay with leaving Seroquel the way it is for now?
 Okay, I'd say let's leave that, wait until another month and then re-evaluate.  If you're able to maintain, we don't have to worry about it.  If it starts creeping up on you again, we might want to -
 Yeah, because sleep is so important, but we don't want to create another new problem, you know -
 I understand, yeah, it can create other health problems too; some people even gain so much weight they develop diabetes and things like that.
 We don't want to mess with.  So, okay.  Um, any others?  Any other stresses?  You've got plenty that we've talked about, anything else going on?
 Okay.  Um -
 Business is down too?  Yeah.
 Okay.
 Well, good.  Yeah, just about everybody I talk to talks about, you know, slowing down their business.  It doesn't matter what business -
 They're in.  It is, it's really putting a crimp in people's lives.
 Um-hum.
 Good, so they can still afford to come see you?
 Good.  Well, um, okay, [PATIENT NAME], is there anything else that I haven't asked you about that you want to talk about today?
 Okay.  What I'm thinking is, let's maybe leave the medicine the way it is for another month.  You know, hopefully, with each month things are going to get a little easier, you know, just in terms of you grieving over your brother's death and medically hopefully getting on the CPAP will help.  Hopefully with, not just with the headaches, but it can help with the energy, it can help with depression, you know -
 Yeah, it can help with a lot of things, even weight because sometimes women, sometimes people eat when they're tired to get the energy -
 And if you get better sleep with the CPAP, you're not so tired during the day.  You may find you're not eating as much.
 So sometimes it helps.
 So let's see how you're doing next month.
 Yeah, and, um, like I said, if things are stable and improving, great, and if not, then we'll make some changes next time to -
 Help you feel even better yet.  Okay?
 All right, good.  Um, anything else before we set another appointment?
 All right, well let's look for mid May then.  There's mid April.
 I know, it's going fast, isn't it?  Let's see, today's [DATE], remind me, is there a day of the week that's best for you?
 Okay.
 Okay, so like an 8:30 time?
 Okay, do you want to -
 Do you want to do Thursday, [DATE] at 8:30?
 Okay.  I'll give you a card.
 No.
 Oh, huh.
 Wow.
 Oh, wow.
 Huh.
 Um-hum.
 Wow.
 Huh.  I'll be darned.  Where did you find it?
 Really?
 Um-hum.
 Symbolizes?
 Huh.  Wow.
 Oh, wow.
 Wow.
 Huh.
 Um-hum.  Well -
 That's a gift to have that then, isn't it?
 Yeah.  Okay.
 Yes.  All right, [NAME OTHER], well again, if you need anything before next time, just give me a call, okay, but hopefully things will keep improving and getting better.
 All right?
 All right, well, have good month, okay?
 All right, it's good to see you.  Take care of ourself, all right?  Hang in there.  Hope you keep getting better.
 Okay.
 All right, take it easy, [NAME OTHER], okay?
 [LAUGHING], all right, I'll see you later.
 Bye, bye.
 You're welcome, bye, bye.
 So we're talking about problems with mood and that and uh, mood fluctuations.
 Uh-huh.
 Hm.
 Okay, so did the nurse come to visit you -
 So did the nurse come to visit you at home?
 Um-hum.
 Right we need a little more -
 All right, you know you got that letter from the pain clinic, right?  That they're going to dismiss you out of the -
 So you're not going back there anymore?  So was it [DEIDENTIFIED] or something?
 Uh-huh.
 Right, that's, when the nurse comes I want you to talk to the nurse about it.
 Okay.
 What did she come over to do?
 Social worker, that's good.
 Well you need to call her and say where's the social worker.  You need to call and say you'd like that social worker, because I think that's what you really need at home and I think that would be best for you.
 How's your pain level doing?
 Um-hum.
 Okay, so go on.
 You're talking about the Ritalin here?
 So how about the SR though, you're taking some Ritalin SR.
 You know again my thought would be what would happen if we took you off that stuff to see how you are without it?
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh, you think -
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 You still have your Geodon, right?  Twice a day?
 You got your Lamictal.
 Got some refills on that too, got your trazodone to sleep, are you taking your Norco?
 Okay, you don't have any suicidal thoughts do you?
 No thoughts of -
 All right you don't have any thoughts of hurting anyone, do you?  No?
 Like who?
 I don't think anyone's coming in, are they?
 Have you seen them?
 So you found some crack in your place?
 Okay.
 How about getting some roommates, ever think of that?
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay so are you saying you need more of the Ritalin?
 Okay.
 So how many would you like?
 Right but how many are you asking for of the 10s?
 Okay, well those are just sustained release ones.
 But you're already on a high dose of that.  You're taking 5 a day.
 You have your Effexor and your Geodon and your Lamictal, trazodone, Chantix, Parafon Forte.  Is it just that you low of energy or is that you -
 Uh-huh.
 Right, that's a lot of calls.
 So the only thing you need today is some Ritalin, is that right?
 The Valium we gave you on the 29th of May -
 So how many are you taking?
 And Parafon Forte you're taking how many?
 Okay, you do have a refill on that.
 Okay, we'll get you some more Valium, so you need Valium and what else do you need today?
 Okay now on the [DATE] you filled that, right?
 How many did you get, yeah show me what you got.
 Yeah, they only gave you 70.  Wonder why, they run out of them or what happened?
 Okay well I'm going to fill that for you.  Do you have the regular ones?
 Um-hum.
 Well you need to get some sleep.
 You ever take pictures of these people?
 Oh, that's good.
 Hm.
 Sure.  That's for you.
 Maybe they're going away now.
 Oh, you do?
 So what kind of OxyContin do you need now?
 Which is what?
 Okay, now where are you getting the Robaxin from?
 Who wrote your last Robaxin script?
 Hm.  How much Robaxin where you taking?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah it seems like it's healing.
 Yeah, don't lose them, if you lose them I cannot replace these.
 Yeah, you should.
 Yeah, tell her that you want to see the social worker.  Have the social worker come to visit you.
 Right, yeah we'll pick this up late -
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 November 3. MP. Consultation. Betty Johnson.
 Yeah, so how are you?
 So you went to a conference?
 Oh! I didn't realize it was two conferences. 
 In Tallahassee.
 Networking. 
 (inaudible at 0:01:26.7)
 Oh wow.
 have you had a chance to get any rest? Or...
 Okay.
 To recover from that.
 Oh well, good!
 "Keep my name and my face in your mind." (laughs)
 So what kind of pressure was that like? To feel like you had to introduce yourself to everybody...
 Oh, okay, okay. So it was... 
 How did you cope with the GRE score when you got it back?
 How did you cope with finding out that you didn't do as well as you would've liked?
 Sure. Now -  [0:04:08.5]
 I can imagine. Especially if you put so much effort into it, so much studying into it.
 Oh wow.
 You guys know who to compare yourself to and realize it wasn't...
 Yeah, that's only one-I think it's only measurement of what they're looking for as far as success. [0:05:35.0]
 I mean, I can imagine. It sounds like you've got a lot of study.
 What do you contribute your bad score to? [0:07:04.0]
 Yeah.
 Now did you take the GRE once or twice?
 Okay, so you actually submit your applications this January? Or...
 Right now? Okay. So what has that process been like for you?
 Translate it or...
 Well, it sounds like that can be...
 He's not happy that you're applying to all these schools?
 What makes him a jerk?
 Does that bother you? [0:10:56.2]
 Does he remind you of anyone else in your, in your life or...?
 That you're handicapped?
 What do you mean?
 What did that feel like? [0:13:27.7]
 That must have been frustrating for you. 
 Recently? (inaudible at 0:15:14.9)
 Didn't that surprise you?
 You told him that?
 Oh, okay.
 "He's smart." (laughs)
 Did he ever yell at you in the hallway?
 Oh, when he closes the door..
 Were they talking about him during this conference time?
 Do you have to work with him? If you get into Michigan, do you have to-
 (inaudible at 0:20:18.8)
 Right, so it sounds like you'll have a difficult time... 
 Facing him, if you stay?
 What is that like to be in that type of position, that type of spot? To feel as though you haven't...
 On you? [0:21:41.7]
 You think? Has another-have other people...?
 Hm! And -  and you think it might be because...
 But it's too difficult to even think about it now or to...
 Okay.
 Are there other professors who are doing... 
 Who are too ... 
 Is that similar to anybody in your past as far as moody, that moodiness? Where you felt obligated, like you had to do something although you really didn't want to? But because they had done certain things for you, you felt like you had to go and go through with it. 
 No, okay.
 Because how have you handled this in the past when you've been faced with a situation that you  - ? And this one, I guess what I'm hearing you say is you would rather go to another school. [0:23:55.7]
 Right, but if you're saying that you would rather not work with him. That you have other opportunities to work with other professors... 
 Right, but here in Michigan, I guess I'm saying.
 Right, because you wouldn't be able to face him in other seminars or if he is on your committee. Or whatever the case is.
 Disconnection (ph) or.. 
 And he said this amongst a mixed group of people. [0:26:32.1]
 Oh wow.
 What were you thinking? 
 What were you thinking as you heard (ph)... ? 
 No empathy, no... 
 You were saying when someone moves on, you would think you would want to pay tribute to them?
 Right. And so you want to carry that out. Yeah, that would make sense.
 Right. [0:28:13.9]
 What were you thinking about saying if (inaudible at 0:28:19.0)...
(crosstalk)
 He wanted to embarrass her, maybe?
 Now I'm wondering, Marta, as I'm listening to you. We had briefly talked about this in the last session or the session before last. We were talking about your interest in cancer and where that might have come from. I know you said that's a complex disease and there's research done. And we talked about significant people who had passed away and died of cancer. 
And it's interesting to hear you say now and looking at your friend's situation. And how people die and move on, you want to continue to carry out things that remind you of them or whatever the case is. And so I just want to, kind of... look at that. And even in your own work, we talked about maybe doing some of that. I just wonder what comes up when you think about Mandy paying tribute to Dr. Cantor in her work. And when you look at your work and significant people who've moved on. [0:29:51.6]
 The question is, do you see any connection? Any relationship? You say that in Mandy's situation, it is.. 
 Sure, (inaudible at 0:30:36.1)
 What about you?
 Hasn't there been someone special in your life, has passed that you didn't want to erase and you continue to do something in honor of them, maybe? Or... [0:30:57.9]
 Okay.
 Okay. Look, it makes wonder, because we talked before, you've talked about your psychotherapist who became very ill. So that's what comes to my mind. I'm often curious as I've been thinking about our discussions and things. I wonder if... You talk and [at one point] (ph), you described her and it seemed like you really liked her, and had some thoughts about her with her passing away so suddenly. I wonder how much of your loss have you grieved. And how much of her memory do you continue to carry on with you. 
 That's okay. [0:32:08.1]
 What was her name again?
 Bella. Okay.
 Yeah. And I would hope that over the course of this work, Marta, that we can talk a little bit more about Bella. Because in the previous sessions, it seems like talking about her is painful for you, or reflecting on that. And I say that because when I bring her up sometimes-
 You change the subject or you cry and then change the subject to something else. And that was a significant loss for you. 
 You know, and it's okay to-I'm wondering if you ever really had a chance to grieve her loss. And I think that would be important for you to do. She seems like a really neat person. You saw her for a long amount of time. And then the way it ended, I'm sure that there's all types of mixed feelings about that. And if you don't grieve that properly or work through that, in a sense, I mean... it could continue to hurt or whatever the case is. 
 You didn't go to the funeral? Oh, okay.
 Goodbyes?
 Sure.
 How do you think going to the funeral would've helped you? Or (inaudible at 0:37:21.5).
(crosstalk)
 Sure. But going through -  looking back at it now, you're saying that you can see..
 Right. How do you think it would have helped you if you had been able to go? If you...
 Uhm-
 So when you think about it now, and say it probably would've been a good thing to go. That it would've helped you with the process. What would've been some of the benefits of being able to go to the funeral and say your feelings or...
 Okay. Yeah.
 Okay. So I mean, I want you to think about that. So let's say if you were to go-if you had a chance to go to the funeral. Or if you could have had one more session with her, knowing that she was going to pass away. What kinds of things would you have said to her. And just kind of, over this period, kind of think about that, and we can talk through that together, in our next session, if you like. 
 I think what's important, Marta, especially because she was so significant to you, and having left that situation unresolved? 
 I think what can happen is that it can play itself out in our relationship. 
 Do you see how that could happen or...?
 Did she ever talk to you about transference issues or...?
 Transference...
 Issues... Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, so it's like transference. Here you have this father who is similar so you bring that into relationship (inaudible at 0:39:25.00).
(crosstalk)
 Yeah.
 Right. And so what I'm saying is, if there were certain connections or certain feelings of things that you had toward Bella in that psychotherapeutic relationship, and there are mixed feelings and things that you have. And sometimes those things can be carried out in our relationship because I can represent psychotherapists, although I'm Betty in 2006. She was Bella in, over the seas. In a certain period of time, those things can carry over. 
 Right? And so just something to think about. It doesn't mean that it has to happen that way, but it can. And so the times where I may think that applies, I may bring it up. Because it's about relating your past relationships to your present relationships. And even how you relate in here with me. And so we may talk about that at some point. 
 Okay? But how do you feel? What are you thinking?
 Yeah.
 You're sure? Okay. Because it's tough? [This stuff's] (ph) hard for you? Sure. What's tough about it? [0:40:50.1]
 You miss her or you...?
 So the exhaustion?
 Okay.
 Okay. So what are you going to do to take care of yourself this-for the rest of the week, and this weekend?
 Oh, okay.
 Can you just talk on the phone, or...?
 (laughs)
 Oh.
 Oh, okay.
 Right.
 Okay, okay.
 You'll be okay with that.
 Oh, okay. Well that's good. [0:43:30.2]
 Yeah, I'm sure that was a huge relief to you. And it seems like that person (ph) - 
 (laughs)
 Oh, okay.
 Sure. Well good for you.
 To get your feet back out there. (laughs)
 Well good for you, good for you. Okay, we have to end now.
 Do you want to come back next week?
 Okay. See we had talked about... let me see. We talked about possibly doing Wednesday, the 12:15, but I'll be in Berkley on that Wednesday. So I'm wondering. That's Veteran's Day. I won't be here Veteran's Day. Are you able to come on Thursdays or?
 Yeah, let's do... (inaudible at 0:45:28.2)
 The ninth. 
 Is that okay?
 And have you finished the computer things yet?
 Are you going to finish those today or you going to come back?
 (laughs) All right. I need to go those done! 
(crosstalk)
 So I can put your treatments in together.
 Okay, I mean, if you -  you know. 
 Okay.  So, um, seen [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] twice and he referred you to me and you've had this relatively consistent anxiety and then some episodes of sadness?
 The anxiety started first?
 Okay.  Is this something you've ever had before?
 Okay.  Now was that the first one or that's the recent one?
 This is the second?
 When was that?
 Okay.  The first episode was?
 Okay.  So the '05 to '06 including both episodes when you told me '05 to '06?
 Okay.  Um, and the first one lasted four months?
 Lasted like just a month?
 And when did this start?  When were you last like your normal self, whatever that is?
 And how did this start and progress and?
 Not why.  Not necessarily why, but like when's the first time, I don't know how you would know this, but like the first time you realized, um, yknow, or did it just slowly came on or?
 It's not like one day you woke up and it wham?
 How recently did it get more severe?
 Um, then did you do anything the other times?
 Did it help?  I mean, it went away and stuff?
 It's not clear?
 Yeah.  Well, I mean, that may have been related to that, but it's possible the medicine might have helped?
 But it didn't hurt?  You didn't have side effects?
 How much were you on?
 Pill?
 Gave you samples?
 Um, where did you go to grad school?
 For what?
 What are you doing now?
 Medical what?
 Oh.  Um, travel a lot?
 So you work for yourself or you work for an agency?
 Okay.  So they contract you.
 The company, you're an employee of the company?
 All right.  Now, somewhere you wrote, and currently this project, you're not traveling, but you're working long hours?
 Like what kind of hours?
 Okay.  Um, are you in one of those sad periods now?
 You get angry?
 Suicidal thoughts, homicidal, ever?
 Um, suspicious, paranoid, hearing things, seeing things other people aren't hearing or seeing?  That's good.  You don't need that excitement.  It's enough.  Um, so no drug allergies and how long have you been on the -
 Yeah, Trivora.
 Years?
 Older brother, younger?
 Coffee, two cups a day, no different than last year or six months ago or three months ago?
 Since when?
 Okay.  You haven't [INAUDIBLE].
 That hasn't miraculously cured you?
 No, okay.  Um, and do you drink soda?
 Okay.  Um, how'd you do in school?
 Hmm?
 Um, lost things?
 Cell phone, your keys?
 No.  You have nothing similar to your father and brother in terms of -
 Okay.  Um, all right.  Okay.  So your focus is down?
 Well, before, general, normally it's good?
 Now what's it doing now?  Has it been worse during this time?
 Um, did that same thing at the perfect times when you're taking finals, studying?
 Um, did you have the depression with the other episodes?
 Okay.  Any problems falling asleep, staying asleep, getting up in the morning?
 You able to fall back asleep and -
 You have trouble getting up in the morning?
 Okay.  Appetite normal for you?  Any weight changes recently?
 Intentionally?  That's good.  Energy level?
 It's good.  Motivation?
 Different than usual or that's the same as usual?
 Um.
 Okay.  That could also be from the depression and anxiety.  Uh, libido, like your interest is normal?
 Crying, empty, desperately sad?
 And, all right, some.  Um, things you can't stop thinking about, worry over and over and over?
 Obsessions, compulsions?
 Long-term memory is good?  Short-term?
 Hasn't been affected by this?
 You always done that?
 And if you don't?
 Do you ever forget things?
 So what, what did, um, the doctor do, what did he think, he thought you had an adjustment disorder?
 But no particular reason to cause the depression?  Or there was a reason?
 That's what you're trying to figure it out.
 Okay.  But you are most bothered by what?
 It seems like your anxiety is -
 So you have like these episodes or are you just always anxious?
 But at the best, there was some anxiety?
 Okay.  Um, what does it feel like?
 This is the regular anxiety?
 Heart beating faster?
 Sweating more or?
 Tingling, numbness?
 And then, um, you have these intermittent packs or whatever of panic like stuff?
 What do you mean you can see it?
 You can see your hands shaking?
 [INAUDIBLE] for the breath [INAUDIBLE] sweating or is your heart pounding in your chest?
 Are you scared?
 It doesn't, I mean, from this it doesn't make you feel like something horrible's gonna happen or you need to go to the hospital 'cause you're dying?
 How long do these last?
 Have you had your thyroid checked?  When you had these things before did you get checked out medically?
 All right.  Um, how soon do you think you're going to get a primary care doctor?
 Yeah.
 You have lists from who's in network with your insurance?
 Do you have a list of who's in network?
 What do you have, [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 It's a good practice [INAUDIBLE].
 I mean, I have no idea.  I can call them and see if they take your -
 Oh, that's where you're working?
 Okay.
 Oh, you live in D.C.?
 Oh, okay.  Where?
 Um, [INAUDIBLE] doctors there.  But it's true they change and did you used to have different insurance?
 All right.  Um, so this episode has been four months about?  Is that what you said?
 This current anxiety, when did that start?
 Four months ago.
 Okay.
 Yeah, January, okay.  Oh, there was more severe over the last three or four months.
 So this is by far the longest.  So in July sometime maybe?
 Um, you weren't depressed much at all the last three terms or you don't know?  You were somewhat depressed or?
 Did you have sleep problems during that time?
 We know that you don't have side effects to Lexapro.
 So and you probably didn't take it long enough to know if it was helping or not helping or whatever.  I mean, unless you, yknow, unless you feel like you really don't want to try that again.
 You don't feel like that.  I think that might be good.  I'd like to also maybe give you some, a little bit of Xanax in case you have one of those major episodes.
 Yeah, just, yeah, but the first time you use it you need to be at home, not driving so you can test it to see what it does to you.  Generally it's a 1/4 mg, if you take one, and two and three, depends what you need, but you'll have to be at home so if you happen to get incredibly sedated from one, which not everybody does, you don't want to be stumbling around work.
 Or crashing.  As long as, and if you have never taken, one doesn't work much, the first time you take two, same thing.
 Just to be, yknow, be on the safe side.  But I think with the Lexapro, I'm going to start you a little slower I think than probably you started last time.
 Because you weren't having panic and sometimes when you have panic, it's very rare, but it's also, you don't have that, um, sense of doom or death with this, so I'm not, yknow, it's not a panic disorder, you're just having like you're panicking.  But if you start on the full dose there might be a slight risk that you'd have an increased the number of panic attacks in the first few days.  So we'll just have you cut one of them up and take for a few days, okay?
 I mean, when you're having all this anxiety you can continue to function at least enough?
 You're not getting fired from your job or anything?
 All right.  Let me see, you're working 12 hours and it would take someone else five hours to do your work?
 I mean, you can focus enough.
 Yeah, but it also.
 Yeah, it also just is probably due to the anxiety and depression as well.
 I mean, if you're anxious and you've got other things going on, it's hard to.  Okay, um, all right, so, um, all right, this and [INAUDIBLE].  Anyway, I, um, I'll give you some samples.  I think that'll be, and you can start it, not of the Xanax, of the Lexapro so you can start.  And you know you don't have reactions to it since you've been on it, so but still I think I'd like to, um, let me see, start a little more slowly.
 Okay.  So if we do, I'll have you break, you can break these in half.
 They're not the easiest to break in half.  They're scored, but they break [INAUDIBLE] in half.  And then with the first one you can either cut that in one of the halves in half or scrape part of it off, so you end up taking a quarter vaguely the first two days.  Then you can go to the half for eight days and then to the whole one.
 All right?  Start taking it in the morning.  If you're one of the small percent of people that it makes tired, switch it to the evening.
 If you have any problems or have unusual side effects, call.  Normal side effects, it's very rare to have any stomach upset, headaches, you're not jittery but sort of like a little hyped up or agitated, not common, that kind of stuff.  All right.  Here's the directions which [INAUDIBLE] you can read them.  And the Xanax, um, is I told you about that.  The sedation is the main, yknow.
 And we know you don't have any drug allergies.  If you develop any while you're seeing me, just let me know.
 So I can keep up, um, up to date.  Read this thing and here's the pen.  Sign that.  That just says we talked about the medicine.  You're giving me permission to give it to you.
 All right.  So basically you're going to end up with an extra, did I write eight days on that?
 Lexapro, yeah.
 Okay.  All right.  Now I'll write the Xanax, it's one to two or a day as needed for an anxiety attack.  But you'll know.
 And, yknow, just keep on with.
 And we'll see if it works.  If it's too sedating, even one of them, you can try a half.  All right, 0.25 mg, one to two.  All right.  There's this.  That's the generic.  And here's this to submit.  And let me know if there's a problem.
 No, I did it.
 One of us does it, but this one actually has my original signature like that.  No, it's not.  All right.  So let's do -
 No, I'm going to give you, give you the Lexapro.  I don't have samples of that.  But I'd like to see you back, I don't know, call if there's problems.  You wanted to go three weeks?  Normally I do somewhere between two and three weeks, but you all right with three or?
 Um, all right, three.  So we'll do one in three weeks and then one three weeks after that, and then four weeks after that and four weeks after that.  Okay?
 That's right.  The reason I'm doing this is in three weeks there's not a whole, probably won't be a whole much of a choice when you can get in.
 In six weeks and in ten weeks and in fourteen weeks there will be.
 So if you give this to [NAME OTHER], she'll set you up.
 For those.  Okay?
 And, uh, also going to give her this as well.  Um, Lexapro 10 mg.  She'll give you the samples.  Just give this to her.  She'll give you the Lexapro samples.
 And I've given you a copy of those.
 Okay?  And, um, I mean you're seeing [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 And if you have side effects or problems or something weird happens, yknow, call.
 Okay?
 All right.  If this doesn't work out I believe there's 50 other things.  I mean -
 Yknow, I mean the odds are pretty good it'll work the first time, yknow.  Other than that, but if it doesn't, then we'll try, yknow, until we get you where you want to be and you're functioning normally.
 Okay?
 Nice to meet you.
 See you.
 No, open's good.  Thanks.  Bye.  
 You want me to read it later?
 Now. Okay.
 That's fine. (inaudible at 00:02:23)
 All right. What are your thoughts about the letter?
 They don't take BCBS?
 Well you said over the next two months.
 Maybe it speaks to a broader issue of whether you want him to continue.
 Ever?
 That's fine.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Well I think everything — last week's session and this week's session. I do want to talk to you. I don't know if I even gave you that contract before so —
 Yeah. Did I give you that before? [00:06:04]
 So the few sessions that you missed I usually just charge my regular fee if people miss sessions.
 But I was charging you half for the few sessions that you missed. So I'll charge you half—
 Yeah. I don't — actually (inaudible at 00:06:24). But within 24 hours. I'm usually very strict on it if I reserve that time for you.
 I can't reserve it for somebody else. So then there's nothing I can do with that time. So I (inaudible at 00:06:37) to that a lot because I do technically book my hours.
 But going forward I can't charge you half the session anymore because I'm very protective of my clinical hours. But I'm okay doing that for last week. Just charge you for half the session.
 Um, what was I going to say? Maybe it's beside the point at the moment. (chuckles) Oh you were talking about a bill. I'll make sure to get you a bill. [00:07:02]
 Although it may be — well I guess - . You paid for some and you paid for some. So you want bills for the separate ones, the ones you paid for?
 (inaudible at 00:07:12) Okay.
 When you started. Right. There were a couple of times I think I saw you at least twice in one week.
 I'll get that to you.
 Sorry about that.
 Sorry.
 Do you want to do that? [00:12:13]
 Well I think one really important question for each of you and the two of you together is whether you can sort of create a more adult life for yourself.
 Where you're self-sufficient and you rely on each other rather than your families. I mean I can't help but think that would only improve your relationship.
 There are plenty of opportunities. I'm sure you can —
 What do you mean by that?
 The nervous breakdown.
 I have some thoughts about what you're saying. But Jessica, what are you thinking? [00:16:01]
 I get that. I get that. That's what — if you hurt yourself maybe people will see what they've done to you. Including Jessica I think.
 (inaudible)
 I honestly don't know how either of you, or you as a couple, can feel good about yourselves if you don't— I think that you feel badly that—. You know you feel like you don't have any self-efficacy. Self-confidence in the world about making yourself in the world. I don't know how you could feel better about yourselves until that happens. Until steps are made for that. Feeling like a child who is so dependent on a parent you can't stand is a terrible way to go through life. (pause at [00:18:43] to 00:18:51)
 Why are you so sure about that?
 It sounds like you reacted somewhat more positively to the letter. Or maybe I'm mis - .
 Do you feel like - .
 Do you feel like in your families not much was expected of you? Or somehow your confidence in your abilities was undermined?
 Well yeah I think Jessica started by saying that you felt put down when you were crying, which is one of the reasons that you feel you're not able to express sadness. [00:22:06]
 Okay.
 What does that accomplish?
 I don't mean to be hard on you but it's just like —.
 I'm not trying to find fault.
 Was Jessica talking about sort of the husband providing, is that what made you angry in this instance? I'm just trying to figure out what —
 I know.
 Jessica when you see Michael like this do you ever want to reach out to him? [00:27:01]
 What do you think Michael?
 Michael, what do you feel like you're losing?
 Provide for him how?
 How do you mean survive it?
 Because you feel like you need Jessica and at the moment you resent her?
 Do you feel like —
 Do you feel like — yeah. I mean there's still structure. It's less structure than a regular job but there's still structures.
 What was I going to say? Is your disease the way it is really barring you from regular employment?
 I know a lot about your disease.
 Did you ever have surgery for it?
 Do you have periods where—maybe not symptom free but sort of that you can —. [00:34:07]
 Do you feel like it's all about you?
 Do you feel like it's all about him, Jessica?
 But this seems like a pretty prominent dynamic in your relationship. That you tend to be sort of — sometimes I see that Jessica is kind of shut down. Or almost bewildered and not sure what to do. [00:36:08]
 What do you mean?
 Yeah. I mean if money was the end all and you just got endless money from your stepfather — I mean I don't actually think that would solve anything. And if anything it could make your situation even worse.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. No I get that.
 Yeah I have a couple of thoughts. One thought is — you know the one thing that you guys lack—like when you were saying Michael that you feel you have nothing. The one thing that you guys lack is a real strong sense that you have yourselves to rely on. And regardless of what else happens or what other shit you have to deal with or whatever else people do to you that really fucks you up; that you can rely on yourself.
 I think both of you feel that way.
 Yeah but then the money that you get is subsidized. I mean treatment — (inaudible at 00:40:42).
 I'm not—
 Well, here's one of the big questions for you as a couple. Can the two of you actually serve as a support and encouragement for each other? To better your lives? And feel a greater sense of autonomy and self-empowerment.
 That's fine.
 We're going to need to stop in a moment. Why did you feel the need to stop right now? Because you're so upset? [00:44:03]
 Well the few things you're saying — there are dilemmas that you're thinking about that I think on some deep, existential level just don't have any answers. Like why is the world unfair?
 But I do think —
 I understand. I totally get it. But the question is you want answers from Jessica. And I think that that's important. And I think Jessica actually wants to give you some answers too. I do think that one of the things that prevents that from happening is, as I've said, this dynamic where, Jessica, you really get shut down. Sometimes you just look bewildered almost. And I want to know more about what goes on for you so I can help bring you out a little bit more.
 I'm not even sure if I was making the point that she's bewildered BY you. [00:45:05]
 Is that how you feel about Jessica?
 You're angry. You guys have got to get to your individual therapists. I don't — I mean the worst thing that I could do is play this parental role saying, "You should do this."
 That — yeah. But I do feel strongly — get to your individual therapists. I understand last week was a — but I just think you guys can do so much more than you're doing now. I really do. In my heart of hearts I believe that. I don't say that to everybody.
 But I really believe that.
 I think you also have a lot of capacities that you guys are just not drawing on.
 And the question is how—
 A lot. A lot of adaptive capacities that you're not drawing on. Either not drawing on or (inaudible). [00:46:04]
 I don't know. I don't have specific answers about that in particular. But I do think that's something that I want to continue talking with you about. But we do need to stop. So next week. So you're not here Monday. And so morning works better for you, right? Is that the case?
 Because I'll let you know what I have in the morning. I know next Wednesday I could meet at 10:50.
 You're not going — what are you—.
 Yeah next Monday. So is 10:50 a possibility? Is that early enough in the day?
 On Wednesday. 10:50. Okay. So we'll do that. I'll e-mail the confirmation and I will also e-mail you the statement in the next day or so.
 I'll e-mail for the few that have not been paid yet but just a whole invoice.
 Okay I will see you guys next week. I hope you have a good Easter. Okay?
 No.
 Uh, let’s just sit that there. We’ll talk about that after, so anyway just; just to go over this, how’s your mood?Low?
 Are you tired all day every day?
 You drag?
 Um, how many hours are you sleeping?
 Do you exercise?
 Well, how much is that? Do you do walking?
 Do you do walking?
 So, that’s, that counts.
 And, are you tired starting in the morning or do you, do you peter out early?
 Almost like breaking through the clouds?
 Burning of the uh, 
 So, the fog burns off by what time?
 So, let’s say six to eight p.m.?
 How’s your self esteem?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Do you feel hopeless or helpless?
 And the fatigue makes it hard to enjoy things?
 You have to push yourself? 
 Right. And are you a bit better from last time or not really?
 Mmm.
 Alright, so you’re on Zoloft three hundred,
 Klonopin one to two per day.
 And Provigil four hundred?
 And Mianserin was a bust?
 And so, we need to find something else - 
 [INAUDIBLE] 
 And stimulants have never helped except the Provigil
 What if, what if we give you long active stimulants - that, where you wouldn’t crash? Have you tried Concerta? 
 No. Well, they all do, all except [INAUDIBLE].
 We uh.
 In the past, I’ve had you on Cylert.
 That’s not available anymore. 
 No, liver problems.
 Uh, Dexedrine and Adderall, but again those have blood pressure problems. And Ritalin, which has blood pressure problems, but not necessarily blood pressure problems and we could always, I mean blood pressure is easier to treat than uh, than fatigue - and your level of fatigue.
 You - any sense it might be from the uh, medication?
 Atenolol? 
 Nifedipine.
 Uh yeah. 
 But you know you had more energy before all that, it always - 
 You’ve always been -
 Dragging. Well, and uh, Wellbutrin doesn’t do it for us.
 Alright, let’s keep you -
 Really?
 Are you crying at all?
 But you just feel down, that’s it?
 Slack.
 It’s been a while since we have tried, uh, Thyroid or Lithium. 
 Oh yeah, you never tried Lithium?
 No, generally not. But we have to keep an eye on your kidneys, um, you really - you’re not that depressed you’re mostly low energy, more, more than -
 I mean, do you think we’re mostly covering your mood with the uh, Zoloft?
 Well, your internist doesn’t seem to be doing it. You did try Lithium in [DATE]. 
 Yeah. I’ve had you on, uh, Ritalin -
 Ritalin and Dexedrine also.
 This has been your standard complaint from day one.
 This just put together in this low energy kind of way.
 You know, you’re hard wiring is such, how is your blood pressure?
 I mean, what do you think of all the things we’ve tried?
 The Marplan?
 Parnate?
 Parnate we used in [DATE]. And stopped in [DATE]. Okay, you were getting uh, side effects, your mood was much better.
 Well, you took the Parnate at night. Cause it made you tired. Your wife thought you were much better. 
 You need to be off for a whole week and it’s not going to be pretty getting you off the Zoloft and switching you over. 
 Yeah. And we, you know, to transition you, we don’t have anything, and if you don’t want Levitra again, there’s nothing you can be on [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 There’s no chance that the Zoloft might be zapping you? 
 Zapping your energy?
 Nifedipine, yeah.
 Who has you on Nifedipine?
 They usually don’t use that for blood pressure these days.
 Yeah, no it’s good.
 That’s the one I gave you -
 For Hypertensive Crisis. 
 So, what did you tell your internist that this stuff works?
 [INAUDIBLE] 
 They find that it works too well and too fast that they don’t use it so much. 
 I, I think we should try some thyroid augmentation.
 Thyroid can, now we’ve checked your thyroid recently, right?
 No, no, I don’t mean your thyroid gland, your thyroid hormones - in your bloodstream.
 That was normal -
 Right, but the blood exam was normal -
 Thyroid test was normal. The internists aren’t crazy about it when we do it but we uh, we in psychiatry routinely use thyroid to augment for mood disorders. 
 A little bit, yeah, we worried that uh, there’s a small chance, long term on thyroid that you get a little more osteoporosis.
 If you’re on it for years. 
 Yeah.
 Um, but you know, we don’t worry about that as much and if were going to worry about it, lets worry about it after your moods are better.
 And uh, when we have the luxury to worry about it. Short term, it’s safe, I mean we have to keep a little bit of an eye on your heart rate and blood pressure.
 But other than that, you know, just make sure you don’t get hyper-thyroid symptoms over hot, fast heart rate, things like that. 
 When was that happening?
 When -
 And it was running, it was running high?
 And what did your internist say about that?
 And so she put you on one?
 The problem with that is that it masks signs of hyper-thyroid. But that’s okay as long as uh, that were keeping an eye on it. That’s alright. Your pulse is okay now? Let me check. Oh yeah, you’re great. 
 About sixty.
 Cool. Cool.
 Yeah. The Atenolol is a beta-blocker, it’s fine. Good, so um, I mean that’s the best I can offer the uh, you are a good dose of Provigil double the usual dose.
 If we gave you speed, if we gave you, you know, amphetamine or Ritalin, we’d have to worry more about your heart rate and blood pressure.
 And they’re not anti-depressant treatments where as thyroid is a classic augmenter framed by depression, you know.
 Right, exactly we just add it and we’ll know in a week or two.
 And so we’ll give it, you know, a couple weeks, hopefully you’ll feel, you know, better in that amount of time.
 I mean the other things you need to do, you need to do is exercise more.
 Get out of bed earlier in the morning, get into the sunlight, you know, basic um - 
 Energy hygiene, kind of a hygiene -
 For your energy system. You know you have a dysregulated energy system -
 And you have to do your best. Do you drink coffee?
 How much?
 Mmm. 
 Alright, I hope your internist’s not mad at me for doing this but I’m going to put you on the thyroid, alright?
 Alright, so we’re going to give you, I’ll write out how to do it, we’ll give you the dose, we’ll raise it and then we’ll give it about three weeks at fifty.
 You know, start out at twenty five for a week and then fifty for three weeks and by then, by three weeks, ah, we’ll do this sloped. We’ll do two weeks at twenty five and then fifty for two weeks. And -
 And by that time, after a month, give me a call -
 We’ll decide over the phone what to [INAUDIBLE]
 Call me [INAUDIBLE] when you get back. 
 That’s right. Um, if we decide that it’s not, if it’s not doing it for us, and you’re ready for Parnate for another trial of Parnate, then just start tapering back on your Zoloft.
 You’ve been on everything.
 Um, We can go into that if you’re, if you’re going to go back on them.
 Uh, your heart rate was going fast, I mean, I have them listed, but 
 It’s been a while. 
 So, we’re going to get you Cytomel, twenty five micrograms. Prescription will say take two a day, take it in the morning. 
 But you take one a day for two weeks and then two a day.
 And give me a call in a month and we’ll know by then.
 Nah. About two months, come back in two months and we’ll -
 Unless you want to come sooner, you know, it’s always nice to see you. People come back when it’s time to, to do something different.
 I think if we’re going to do the MAO inhibitor next -
 You should just start cutting back on the Zoloft before coming in next.
 That would be the thyroid prescription. 
 Okay, anything else uh?
 Just too much juice.
 If, uh, it, thyroid is the hormone of metabolism.
 So, if you have too much of it, too hot, internally hot
 You feel hotter than other people, your heart rate and, and you know, blood pressure, everything starts cranking up. You get flushed, you get skin problems, hair, hair thinness and like that. 
 It’s not going to happen on this.
 It’s not going to happen on this. Um, okay, but give me a call in a few weeks, let me know how it’s going.
 Alright?
 Other prescriptions, any other prescriptions?
 The Klonopin?
 Okay. Alright.
 About a month or so, okay. 
 Bye.
 My understanding is, is it correct, this is, this your first therapy session?
 Well, what troubles you about?
 What, what do you feel the difficulty in opening up this?
 I wonder the degree which you might be afraid or anxious about exposing yourself.
 Well, I'm struck by the contradiction and that you are coming here for help.
 ... (crosstalk) on the one hand, but on the other that you feel so pessimistic.
 What would you say has got you to that point?
 Well, it sounds very much like the, the circumstances of your life, uhm, have, have emotionally throw you back on your own.
  And your the father's illness, your age have made you sort of reflect a bit,  let more that is beginning to come to the picture -
 What is the difficulty with your husband?
 What is your work?
 I know this semester, you, you were away of life. What, what took you away?
 How sad?
 When you feel down, how down do you feel?
 Ever had thoughts of suicide?
 Mm-hmmm.  Trouble sleeping?
 Have you ever had loss of appetite?  Loss of weight?
 Concentration did for (inaudible 00:07:01.09)
 When you're in this situation with your husband, how do you handle it?
 And, and what happens to you and your feelings when that happens?
 Withdraw.
 I don't really have girlfriends to call, I don't—I never had really been one for that, you know, coffee-clutches on all that crap. I don't do that. But that, so I kinda keep things on the side, you know.
 It seems when, when, when you get that, it's sort of, overwhelmed your sense of self.
 Okay. When it comes to supporting yourself and in this kind of stress, somehow, something happens that interferes.
 Just a few, don't feel you have the right to?
 Right.
 Can you say any other possible reflections on this?
 "Other reflections of that," I said.
 In other areas of your life?
 Well, anyway, when if you'll say you have to do that, there's no sense or expectation that you will, will get it, is the op—opposite you're not gonna get it.
 I might—I guess that very strong influences you come in here (coughs) for treatment.
 I need thoughts about where this may come from.
 How old when she died?
 How's truly does your reaction that time?
 That troubled school?
 What other ways did that affect you? (coughs)
 But it sounds as you described like with your mother you feel the bond?
 And you did feel that she was supportive of you?
 So on the circumstance with your loss of your mother, you lost your guiding system?  Parental guiding system (ph).
 And ah, I was just also then curious about the circumstances into getting married that you hope to, to make up for that with your husband?
 This was your first job?
 Yeah.
 This was the year after you graduated?
 What sort of emotional state where you in at that time?
 Were you, ah, living at home or living in your apartment or...?
 And what about the early marriage years?
 How about your sexual life, how was that?
 Both.
 Let me see how I can, ah, put some on the list together... (crosstalk)
 ... and see what you think of it.  It's sound to me like ah, (clears throat) you probably, did have a pretty good relationship with your mother, in which she was supportive of yourself.  And that before you could complete that task of becoming independent in yourself, you lost your mother, and this created such turmoil and maybe pain, about trying to, to complete, a sense of self it would guide you that you were protecting yourself, maybe was to give up that task and, and basically, shift your focus to others. (coughs)  Meanwhile, maybe kind of numbing your feelings, and then perhaps with your husband, his interest in you, raise sort of embrace (ph) on what were you with your mother.  And promise of, you know, restoring that, which maybe in the early days of the marriage, with everybody's easy children's of what, would seemed to be fulfilled.  But then as the marriage went on, it would become clearer and clearer that it was not.  Which sends you back emotionally, to the place where you were in before you got married.  In terms of being able to rely upon yourself and have confidence in yourself, in your dealings with others.  How does that strike you?
 It's as if, for example, ah, you've made a point in here like your lack of trust in others, no one caring and particularly here in session with me, we basically, you know, come here to understand yourself, you have to put yourself out there in it.  It, it exacerbates the feeling that, you know, putting yourself in danger with this other person who doesn't care.  Who made you the same thing in which your mother did, may leave you high and dry.  So you put yourself back.  I was curious when I read in your history, that you try to go out to do some photographic things on your own, but you end up wondering around, correct?
 What's going on with you when you wonder around?
 What would you intend to do here?
 I can return that around, and maybe say that when you have to activate yourself in that way, it brings on the depression and the depression takes away the drive to do it.
 No. What would you call it?
 What's your feeling?  What would you call it?
 Why, unless your sadness and futility, is only the idea of doing, activating yourself, brings on sadness and futility.  And, and so then you pull back to protect yourself against the sadness and futility.
 So you're put in the situation where you're all on your own by yourself in effect?
 But I think what it does, which you just described does it for—in a way, forces you, (clears throat) back on yourself.  A self that was in—had big problems when the time your mother died.  And you are able to make one kind of arrangement or another, to sort of, make it work, but all of this coming in at once, have exacerbated this thing, the sense, ah, the sense of loss associated both in relationships you can't trust, you can't feel that people were responding to you, they, they, they would leave you on the one hand.  And then, when you have to do something yourself on your own, it brings out this sense of sadness.  Ahh, so that you seem kind of stuck on the surface only.
 Which must be the reason why you came for treatment?
 Well, I'm, I'm struck again.  Remember, I asked you, when you do speak to your husband, you want more communication, he hasn't done it.
 And you have difficulty with staying with that and pursuing him because you feel, I suppose, you feel rejected and maybe depressed in throwing back on that feeling about yourself.
 And I, I noticed here, I, uhm, at the beginning of the session, you only had trouble focusing on yourself in story.  As if, if you focus on me, this will relieve you and make it easier to fill in from the difficulty you have inside your head, with yourself.  Can you follow me?
 Sort of? (laughs)  Uhm, so when you talk about what you want, you don't talk about that what you want for yourself, but for yourself and the other.
 So what I'm trying to say in all of this is, that I think, the more fundamental problem has to do with the way you feel about yourself, heavily, heavily influenced by the loss of your mother, and how it impels you to deal with whether it's work or with relationships.
 Will you think about that?
 What will you like—let's look at this for a moment.  Uhm, what were your, your years like before 13, before she died?
 Any problems in school or...?
 Did you have friends at school? Out of school?
 Why, or why do you think, why was that?  Did you, did you see yourself as different in that regard, from your peers at that time?
 Uh-huh.
 In this, it was, this way right up through left (coughs) and see right up to 10, 11, 12?
 Is it possible that you were very heavily involved with your mother?  So that you didn't feel so much of the need for others.
 We know that, that is very clear because when you start to talk about her your face lights up, which is in such contrast to, in other way you feel—Are you, were you, your mother's favorite, would you say?
 Uh-huh. So in these senses that we are now, we're not getting a little better picture of why the loss was so deep, because of the depths of the involvement, would you mind?
 Meaning?
 It's of loss.
 How did she die?
 Did she die suddenly or... (crosstalk)
 Uh-huh.  So also when somebody dies suddenly, there is no time to get adjusted to the idea that they're gone... (crosstalk)
 Did you ah, did you, uhm—when you were so upset after she died, did you search out teachers or somebody, you know, some older women to—as a bridge of some kind?
 Perhaps the... (crosstalk)
 ... sense of loss was too deep.
 When you are with your dolls, would you play the role of mother who...?
 Why do you say it that way?
 For your mother.
 Uh-huh.  Did your, did your mother ever, ever inside of kind of problems?
 Emotional problem... (crosstalk)
 ... of that kind.
 Uh-huh.
 So is that task for your mother or troubled doing what she wanted to do?
 She done with the focus with your father?
 Was she ah, cleaning up and all,  what ahh, trying to have a perfect—was she a perfectionist in any other way?
 What about ah, when your father may have been putting you down or something like that?  What now?
 Yeah.
 Or did she encourage you to intervene?
 What about... (crosstalk)
  ... ahh.  Uh-huh... (crosstalk)
 What about, lets say, uhm, (indistinct sound) when you want to do something, what will had it would be?
 Well, when you want to do something in yourself, you know, you want to... (crosstalk)
 Well, maybe more than that.  Something in school or some activity.
 Uh-huh.  Some freedom from what was going on at home.
 Didn't come up?
 I know you're sort of uhm, content in, at least, in this relationship with your mother.
 What's that?
 Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  But what one thing comes to mind here, we are talking about your mother, ah, you know, when your father was putting you down or maybe some of the others, she wouldn't intervene, she wouldn't stand up for herself, with her husband, huh?  Is that right?
 And here we see you having the same problem with your husband.
 That must been—is it that way with your father, too?
 Ahh, I supposed you kids were supposed to listen, too.
 You.  You and your brothers.
 But not you? (crosstalk)
 But not you?
 (clears throat) Focusing on in pleasing the other...?
 ... than expressing yourself?
 Which is I think, the basic problem that comes all the way up to this day.  I think, it rep—ah, the expressions itself, you know, your problem with your husband, even when you talked about him and, you know, well, he—his "God speaks and so you're not supposed to," it is making of him a much more important person than he really is?  I'm supposed to... (crosstalk)
 ... say—Huh? (crosstalk)
 And what happens when you think that?
 See, as soon as you come to the, the brink of supporting yourself, especially when it's in conflict with the other or maybe in conflict with the other.  You begin to feel, I think, maybe a sense of uhm, there's no point to it, as sense of helplessness and then you back off.  And then the situation continues and you feel more depressed and more angry.  And probably, would have withdrawn more.  So that, what I'm trying to get out here is that this business of being able to support yourself, (sniffs) withdraw now the critical aspects of the problem and the difficulty whether you cursed it, uhm, affects all the other, the depression or desire to withdraw.  I think it has other reflections and you sense that you really haven't done in your life what you wanted to do.  Right?
 Well, I suspect that this is also one of the reasons you haven't activated yourself in following through we talked about the incidence with the photography in going on, ah, I, I think emotionally come up against the same barrier that you came up against when you want to talk to your husband.  When you want to talk to him, he doesn't, he doesn't respond, so rather than, rather that persist in order to support yourself.  You feel kinda depressed and hopeless about it and give up... (crosstalk)
 ... and it maybe the same thing in terms of developing yourself—your own independent self in your life and building a life that gratifies that part of you.  And the only, only pieces that we have at the moment is, you wanna go out and I'm sure it's reflection on that to do something with the photography.  You get out there and end up wandering around because you feel, "What's the point?" Again, "What's the point in supporting myself?"  "Where is this—where is the—your payback?"
 Okay. So let me ask you, what I—what I'll try to do here, (clears throat) is to lay out the problem, and, and I wonder why your first response to looking at it, is to ask me, I will solve it.  Isn't that a repetition of the same thing?
 But you say, you're, you're clearly ahh, you're a bright person and you, you have a lot of capacities, but confronted with this issue, I mean, my describing it to you is the way putting it in front of you. It's, It's a, it's analogous to the, the difficulty with your husband.  I'm saying here it is and then, what do you feel when I say that?  What is it that imposed you to turn to me and say, "What should I do about it?"
 What's the matter with that?
 And he probably will... (crosstalk)
 ... and so what?
 Oh, it must lead something else... (crosstalk)
 But what's so bad about that?
 Or could it be that, that I'm thinking now about when you were telling us about when you were a child.  Ahh, that should be you were a good girl.  Translation of a "good girl" is somebody who, who figures out what other people are expecting and tries to stay within those limits and so forth, huh?
 And perhaps, this is another way—good girl's another way of trying to, to, to describe of what I've said, "If you have a problem with yourself, your sense of self and expressing it.  One way to protect yourself is to be a good girl and focus on others then, the problem doesn't bother you and never come out."  So when you have to do this with your husband, it's like you're going against this lifelong pattern of being a good girl, and that looks like disaster.  Whereas, you know, real life situation you're in, it is, uhm, might possibly be ah, the major answer toward if there's any answer.  As always what you have been doing is—has not helped very much, huh?
 Well, do you realize what you're saying, that for you to support yourself, was to be a bad girl?  And bad girls get rejected and bad girls get punished and left and all of those bad things.
 Well, let me, let me put it somewhat different way. As I, ah, listen to you and hear you, uhm, a critical part of the problem has been the difficulty focusing on yourself and in developing an independent sense of self that is solid, and can guide you, heavily influence, in this regard by the loss of your mother, before it was fully developed.  And now, at this age your, your complaint is that you are not as developed as you would like.  Your life is, you may have been got into the things you'd like and so forth.  Those are direct results of that, so that someone who has not experienced what you did—who hasn't lost a mother, so to speak, and is able to develop that in adolescence, they make a business of life, of trying to arrange it in such a way that it provides satisfaction for that part of themselves.  So that, you know, life is made up of these different, uhmm, you might say "time building blocks" and you can ignore some of the things that happened in your 20's and then your 30's.  But when you get to your age, and especially, with the death of your mother at that age, your children getting old enough to move out of the home, your father getting ill.  All of these things are powerful influences to turn you around to look at the track records, so to speak, and to be upset.  And the advantage of that, of course, is you may not see that way, but the advantage of that is that it brings you for treatment where you can finally do something about it.
 Not okay.  How does it would sound to you?
 Right.
 But that is a big step forward, isn't it right?  Why is it a big step forward?
 Yeah.
 Are you?
 It's, it's a big step forward.  Could you question yourself?  You said, "I'm doing it again," which means to me, that you are willing to reflect upon it and try to better understand why you do this.
 For you, to look at the future, and I think to look at this is a flannel (ph) with feelings from the past that it blinds you and you can't see the reality of the present or the future.  They are all infiltrated with this problem from the past.  At times about to—now you can ask me a question if you want to.
 Oh, we're back to ground zero. (laughs) (clears throat)
 Listen to yourself, what did you hear yourself say?
 It's as you need my "imprimatur" (deep breaths)
 My state of approval.
 For you to do what you think is in your best interest.  And there is the problem, right there.
 Oh, it's up to you. (murmuring) (laughs)
 We're playing ping-pong here? (laughs) You try to put it on my lap.  I mean, you do like try and put it back in your lap.
 A little more and not enough.
 Not a bad start. (laughs) (clears throat)
 Okay. Then you have the opportunity to come back and we review and maybe get deeper with it and so forth.  That's a way it's done. (clears throat)  Okay... (crosstalk)
 Oh, no.  I didn't think that's what you had in mind.  I thought I was just an opener or to get started.
 Then, I mean, you have to ask yourself if what's you're going to do is disagree with him and confront him, is it a good idea to start it by climbing on his lap?  I mean, that's a question, it is not like alright, sometimes it is a good idea and sometimes not.  It depends on the relationship.
 Okay.  I appreciate your coming in.
 Welcome. Okay.CONCLUSION TO SERIES, FIVE APPROACHES TO LINDA
 Good morning.
 Oh good.
 Cool.
 (Snickers).
 (Laughs).
 Yeah you probably could. 
 Oh, really?
 What do you know?
 (Laughs), which of the many reasons do you have in mind?
 Is that the P90X?
 A different one?
 Oh, okay.
 Right.
 Maybe she's beyond thinking they're simple (ph) out there, (pause).
 (Laughs), (pause).
 I mean I'm going to hell anyway.
 You don't believe in heaven either? I don't believe in heaven.
 So you're bummed about not having more closings?
 Could you sit down with a few of the attorneys you know who are really busy to talk to them about how they're so busy but...
 So it's more about hooking up with the right mortgage guy?
 Yeah, so you're kind of, (pause). 
 Scout dad?
 Homophobia (ph)?
 Right.
 I don't know (ph) if a six year old has heard it from somewhere before—
 Or someone actually said.
 (Chuckles).
 Smart kid.
 Well that's good.
 Right, right—who brought you the [inaudible at 00:17: 41].
 What's the place?
 Oh, oh, oh okay.
 So what kind of bummed are you feeling?
 That's always down (ph)?
 [inaudible at 00:20:11]
 Right, maybe you should have, (pause), waited.
 Right. [00:21:11]
 Is this feeling pointless?
 Would that be the first game he'd go to?
 Wow (ph), (pause).
 (Pause).
 [Laughs]. He's all over that?
 [Laughs].
 Oh really?
 Right.
 The last time you said you drank between tastings.
 It's not fair to your team—
 Nobody you showed up.
 Did you throw an interception?
 Good.
 Good.
 You seem, (pause), more listless. Or like less into talking about stuff. You're, (pause), maybe, (pause), then.
 I don't know. [00:33:15]
 So you're pretty worn out?
 I mean it seems like you're kind of biding your time here. I guess that's how it seems. (Pause).
 (Chuckles).
 Is that what I do?
 Oh, well tell me about that. (Pause), I just sort of sit here and—
 Just kind of passively listen, sort of occasionally think of something to say, but ... 
 (Chuckles).
 So it's like, (pause),—
 This is the (chuckles).
 This is the let's make a joke out of what Ethan is asking about part of the session? (Chuckles), because you don't necessarily want to think about it, or talk about it, or work on something, so we're going to, (pause), block it into oblivion, sort of.
 (Chuckles), (pause).
 (Chuckles), (pause).
 But it also sounds like there's some things that you're bummed about, I guess through work. [00:36:17]
 I mean it's not new, but it sounds like you've heard this week about people being busy, and that—
 Made you feel crumby.
 Yeah.
 I think you get when you (pause), feel, (pause), I think, (pause), kicked in gut, (pause), like this, that you get more passive. [00:37:36]
 Sure people get all sorts of things. Some get more hostile, some people get more agitated. People get all sorts of things. You tend to like, (pause), check out a little bit.
 I guess in a way being checked out means like a way of distancing yourself a bit from, (pause).
 The pain, like the upset, that things that are really bothering you.
 Otherwise what would happen?
 (Chuckles), you mean the part with the hat?
 Right.
 I hear they can generally feed themselves.
 Why is it enjoyable?
 I guess the issue is that, while you're right, (pause), it's important to have ways to cope. One of the, (pause)—yours cause some further problems.
 Yeah, like when you go to the park, to actually get work done, which can make a difference. And at times, I think it can be hard to sort of look at and take responsibility for things, which, (pause), can cause you trouble.
 No. I don't know that. I mean I guess it would surprise me if that were part of it, but I would, I don't know.
 (Chuckles). No I'm not, I just saying that I'm, (pause),—if I knew ... 
 Well, let's say you were talking to a therapist who was trying to point to some of the stuff you're struggling with and you tended to want to like, (pause), move away from that or indirectly kind of shut it down or, (pause), stuff like that. I mean I guess that would be one.
 I guess I'm referring to something pretty specific. Yeah, which is for, let's say, like for how that, (pause), how you respond to that. Yeah.
 Yeah, I think that's right.
 (Pause), what comes to mind?
 I don't know.
 To carry [inaudible at 00:47:24]?
 (Pause), what about stopping for now?
 Okay. (Pause).
 Okay.
 Really?
 What does that mean?
 So you would conduct the workshop for others who were interested in this?
 So he was going to go ahead and do it alone?
 So it makes you angry? 00:04:58
 So this just happened?
 So when you say you still have feelings for him, what other feelings came up?
 You were feeling anything else about it? 00:06:13
 So what you're experiencing with him feels familiar in some way? Like you've been down that road before? 00:07:52
 You mentioned your parents?
 Expect too much (overlapping voices)
 So why do you keep coming?
 Somehow I would say that it's worthwhile?
 (inaudible)
 You seem...my sense is you seem to want me to convince you to stay.
 Like I have an explanation for why you're here that you don't.
 How could I have that?
 Is your expectation, at this point, that I know you better than you?
 Then how could I know your reasons for being here any better than you do?
 So that my experience should give me some edge on understanding where you are with this?
 Well, I feel that its....you said its somewhat of a catch 22 for you...that...or a double edged sword or whatever you want to call it but there...what tends to happen consistently is you do come in and question why you're here....
 ....you expect for me to give you answers about that but what happens in the process as we explore this, you seem to get in touch with feelings that you've been keeping at bay. I'm thinking two weeks ago, it was quite an intense session in my memory in terms of you getting in touch with some very profound feelings of sadness that you...you weren't; as aware of as you seem to be...you know, saying that you are today. And so what happens is you get in touch with these intense feelings and then something goes on with that between that session and when I see you next and then you come in the next session kind of all ready to....my sense is to argue with me about what am I doing here? As if you're coming for me, in a sense.
 As if you're coming for me instead of for you.
 Is how I'm experiencing that. There's like a demand that I convince you why you should be here.
 Why you should be helping you. What's the tear in (overlapping voices)
 Then maybe that's not a realistic expectation. Coming to therapy isn't going to get a vitamin B12 shot.
 You know? It's a process.
 Yeah but, Maddie, sometimes it isn't a question of getting in touch with feelings, it's a question of allowing ourselves to have the feelings that are there.
 But what makes you think you can stop them from happening? I mean, is that the dichotomy that's getting set up now? That you know if you come to therapy you're going to be aware of these feelings that you don't want to be having...these unpleasant feelings and if you don't come to therapy, you're going to be safe from them? You're not going to feel them? 00:16:06
 And you want to come to therapy and feel better?
 So, you've got a mixed experience and you've drawn toward these things that you hope will help but then....when you do them, they end up making you feel worse.
 Well, I certainly can't give you guarantees that you're not going to feel worse before you get better and that...I can't give you guarantees that when you come in here and you do start to explore some of these things, that you won't get into, you know, deeper realms of feelings that are upsetting for you. I mean, my experience so far has been that when you allow yourself to get in touch with the sadder feelings or the fearful feelings in here about your future or regrets about your past or feelings of dissatisfaction in general about your life and concerns about the future, that it does get very difficult for you to just kind of be with those feelings.
 And...and so is it your hope that if you don't allow yourself to look at it in...with a microscope that you won't be aware of how.....
 (overlapping voices) more typical it is?
 Well, how is therapy affecting you physically then (overlapping voices)
 But is your concern that that's damaging to you in some way?
 How?
 How is that different than your days off when you're not coming to therapy?
 Well, we know there's a lot there for you around this whole issue about what may or may not be causing physical problems or what may or may not be jeopardizing your physically health. You mentioned many times you are concerned about that...you're concerned that you could kind of....what's going on right now?
 Describe the feelings that are coming up? 00:23:02
 Can you put some words to that?
 (inaudible)
 So you still think that I don't appreciate the physical component of it?
 I wonder what gives you that feeling? We've talked about the...I've tried to clarify with you that I.... 00:24:36
 Well, I...you know...I really feel the frustration that you're feeling with it. And I'm glad that you're telling me about it, you know. I mean there's nothing we can do with it if you're not talking about it but I just have to say I....my experience with these conversations is that somehow you want me to convince you that this is the right thing for you to be doing yet everything you tell me when we get into these discussions is that it's not. So, you know, I can't help but feel as if there's a part of you that really wants for this to be helpful.
 And that...that wish and that hope kind of gets.... 00:26:21
 See I still don't really see the....I understand in my mind. I understand what you're saying...this connection between somehow going deeper into the feelings here, you know, wears you out and you're worried about the impact that it's having on you physically and perhaps it's even exaggerated some of the menopausal symptoms or whatever or that maybe you should be doing other things on your days off that you know might alleviate some of the stress you're feeling like that as opposed to creating more. I mean I understand conceptually what you're saying with that but my experience of the way, you know....accessing and expressing feelings works is the opposite of that. So when you say it to me it's like it doesn't...it just doesn't gel. It doesn't click for me because for most people....
 Pursuing feelings and going into them and allowing yourself to, if nothing else, just ventilate them and hopefully we should be doing more than that but even doing that alone, is often very relieving....for any kind of physical ailment.
 And that's why it makes me wonder what else is there that we haven't looked at and the one thing that does come into mind for me over and over again is that there seems to be a lot of trepidation on your part about looking at this stuff. So, you come in here...it's almost like you can't not get in touch with the sad feelings but then when you do, you like fight with yourself not to go down that road and that itself, you know....that conflict....that fighting.....that battle that goes on for you....that in itself is the only thing I can think of that might be contributing more to the exhaustion and the stress...it should be like (overlapping voices) 00:28:44
 Well, I wasn't not thinking of that but I'm curious what...why you assume that I....that....
 How would you feel if you convinced me that this was all physical?
 Okay, then what if I say...you know, obviously what's happening with you is....these are menopausal responses?
 Yeah. How you feel after the sessions.
 But why does it have to come from one or the other? Why can't it be an interaction? 00:30:14
 Are you feeling that in general? Do you feel that at other times? All week long?
 Do you feel it....
 Well, let me just ask you if you'd be willing to entertain the idea that part of [might be happening] (ph) with you is a reaction that's hormonal and that part of it is a resistance to being able to tolerate the strong feelings that come up.
 Well, yeah. I mean I understand that that's scary and that doesn't promote a lot of confidence in this.
 (inaudible)
 You're feeling (inaudible) 00:34:00
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) I'm not sure that you won't feel, you know, that I truly appreciate the level of that faith (ph). You know, I can (overlapping voices)
 You would like for him to understand (inaudible) kind of like everything's okay with him? Your up (ph) and (inaudible)
 But today when (inaudible)
 How could the last man in your life not be important to you? I mean even if you're no longer interested in pursuing a relationship; it's the last...he represents the last time you had that kind of attention and affection and connection.
 You're hard on yourself, Rebecca.
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
 Which part of (overlapping voices)?
 Right. (inaudible) wanting to let him (inaudible)
 Why did you need to use that defense right now? To kind of label...label your feelings.... 00:38:20
 Or maybe you feel this is a safe place to get in touch with them. I mean obviously, if you're stirring up the pot and you know, you have a difficult 12 hours or 24 hours even past your session, you seem to...it doesn't seem to stick with you beyond that during the week...or does it?
 I mean you feel like it's wiping you out more during the week? (overlapping voices)
 (overlapping voices) but I think that's another issue. Clearly, you need more time to take care of yourself in those sorts of ways but that...I mean....
 You don't have it? No. But maybe we should talk about why you don't have it.
 It's a lot for you to carry on your own.
 Well, I'm going to say it again at the risk of you getting irritated again but I don't...I don't think it's the feelings themselves that are exhausting you. I think it's the conflict about having the feelings. It's the fight against the feelings. So, in other words, the frustration or the fear or the anger comes up and boom, there's something that blocks it right away that says don't feel this; knock it off. You're feeling sorry for yourself. You're indulgent. You're weak. All those labels come up and so what you've got going on immediately is this big battle inside and that's what's exhausting. That's absolutely exhausting. And then, as you say, you know that there's....the hormonal thing kicks in too and you've got exaggerated conflict going on. I mean I hear you saying, you know, I need ore soothing; I need more taking care of myself; it feels good; it feels...and obviously, you do. Clearly you do. But I'm not convinced that....that the way to find that is to try and make a detour around this conflict. 00:42:00 (quiet to 00:42:13)
 How did that hug feel?
 You don't even let yourself....
 So you kind of put the stops on that?
 You've never had that kind of response to treatments before? 00:46:07
 Did you get a physical yet? We talked weeks ago about you getting a physical.
 Why not?
 You've never been anemic before?
 So are you ....
 You are?
 How do you feel now?
 How do you feel about what we talked about today?
 You say you're sure but....
 Would you like to have a better understanding of what that conflict is about? That fight that goes on within you every time you allow yourself to start having these intense feelings?
 Well, that sounds like a knowledge that you have. That sounds like one of those insights that, as you say, you know, I know what I'm feeling. How is this going to help that? 00:49:52
 Right. Maybe, maybe. But my understanding of some of the things that, you know, you haven't felt so clear about....such as your concerns that maybe some of your work focus in some way, inhibits you from getting the rest of your life....getting other things that could be fulfilling....
 No...I...yeah, I understand that. I understand that.
 Well, there's something that I think is worth looking at more. In terms of this whole feeling, like you know, what's the point of getting into the feelings here. I might as well have a good cry (inaudible) In terms of what....what it means for you to be going through this with another person. Part of what you seem to be experiencing so much pain about in your life is that you carry a heavy load; the burden is always yours. Not that you don't have people in your life and friends and the people that you know you work (ph) on and come to...close with but that ultimately you end up feeling like this is really...I'm really in this alone. 00:53:27
 Yet there's.....and when you come here, I sense that there's, you know...that you're willing to let me in on this....that's not a problem for you but I'm not sure how much your willing or able to kind of acknowledge sharing it with me.
 That's kind of the sense (overlapping voices) that I get
 Yeah. (overlapping voices)
 So that experience kind of gets translated into the cynicism (overlapping voices)
 You know because...I mean I have to say there's this...I don't really get the sense of how much you leave this stuff with me. You know? I mean it's like you come in and you really unburden a lot in terms of what you're feeling then your experience is you kind of wrap it all up and you take it home. I mean I'm not saying that you could not do that but.... 00:55:11
 Yeah. I feel like...
 ...like where does that piece go?
 Well, I mean obviously...I mean it's kind of an abstract concept. Obviously, it's your life and it's you and you take you with you. You're not really going to leave it here but it...but on an emotional level, you know, you are sharing a lot of very painful, frustrating feelings with me and I don't get the sense that there's...that there's....
 Which sometimes can happen.
 Being like her or being concerned that you'll drain her if you (overlapping voices)
 (overlapping voices) Yeah.
 Well, I think it has a lot.....
 I think it has a lot to do with us.
 Yeah. I think that's worth us pursuing more.
 And that I can handle it. That I'm not, you know, going to be all alone; that I'm not, you know, going to say don't...don't do this to me.
 And maybe you're not sure that I can.
 Okay. Well, let's keep talking about that. We're out of time for today.
 Oh, no. Not at all.
 Sure.
 Sure.
 Uh-huh. [00:01:07]
 (laughs) Ok.
 Yep.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:05:46]
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yep. [00:06:48]
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh, yeah. [00:07:43]
 Uh-huh. [00:09:36] 
 (laughs)
 Using (inaudible).
 What does it mean, technically?
 Uh-huh. Those things are referred to as -
 I see.
 Ok.
 Uh-huh. [00:12:56]
 I see.
 Oh?
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 I see. So it's not what the cool kids are doing anymore?
 Uh-huh. [00:13:55]
 Uh-huh. [00:16:04]
 I think some of the other things you're saying—you're doing today (pause) point to how the—it's undeserving, but in a way, it seems almost like scandalous. It feels that like something so good should be happening to you. [00:17:53]
 All the stuff is just working out. 
 Stuff's just working out.
 Ok. [00:18:48]
 Uh-huh. 
 What have you been thinking?
 What are you referring to?
 Uh-huh. [00:21:28]
 So when you are in the throes of feeling loved by him, and the ways that he made you feel that way, did that soothe your feeling so unworthy?
 Uh-huh.
 Hmm.
 Uh-huh. [00:23:31]
 So that would be -
 —put you in the same category as everybody else?
 Which is not all a great deal, though?
 Uh-huh.
 How so?
 Uh-huh. [00:25:21]
 Uh-huh. (pause) It makes me think of a kind of—like an uneasy truce with yourself or compromise, where you can kind of tolerate being loved as long as it sort of doesn't quite mean the same thing to you after a while, or the poignance of it doesn't feel quite the same as it does at first.
 Maybe before I could say it—doesn't feel the same way as it does at first, but -
 —(inaudible).
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:26:31]
 Uh-huh.
 Hmm. [00:29:15]
 How do you know they will—people will (inaudible) when they will?
 They don't deserve (inaudible)?
 Two-year-olds aren't horrible.
 Two-year-olds aren't that horrible. [00:30:16]
 So tell me about the two or three or four year olds who don't? [00:32:07]
 True.
 Yeah.
 I'm not getting the part where the little kid -
 —is deserving -
 (inaudible) yeah. [00:33:30]
 (laughs) 
 (laughs)
 (laughs)
 What are some other things that you wind up loving about the little kids you have?
 Yeah, I think you have this fantasy about contingency -
 —that you're—at least, as we're talking about little kids, I think, pretty clearly, to loving a person to actually maintain. Like, in other words, the fantasy breaks down, I think, when you think about actual little kids and the fact that -
 —you know, it wasn't because they used a big word or they thought of a cool game, or because they could do something one day that they couldn't do another day. Like, those may all be part of it, and part of how you feel loving towards them, but yeah, I don't—I'm not buying the contingency thing the more you talk about it. I didn't really think it was true beforehand but -
 —but I—especially -
 So I -
 Umm -
 No, that's fine. I'm trying to (inaudible). 
 I don't really know how to put it all together, but to me this seems not that distantly related to how contingent you feel it is about yourself, as well. 
 I guess there is something pretty frightening for you about being loved like kind of without condition or a contingency. [00:41:06]
 Feel like that?
 Yeah. Or you wouldn't necessarily see yourself that way, as two, or three, or four-year-old. 
 We should stop. I hope things go well with the move. [00:42:02]
 Sure. All right. Take care and I'll see you on Tuesday.
 Get your paperwork here now, too and, and, uh, more importantly how are you?
 Are you?
 Good.
 I knew that, that was coming up here I —
 Well, you told me that she was coming.  I, I don't that, that you told me exactly when, so.
 Yeah, well good, I mean I know one of your concerns last time that we talked just that you wanted to be well for her visit.
 Um, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry again tell when she coming?
 Oh, good.
 Good.  How are your folks?
 Oh, is that right?
 Yeah, boy that's a, those are, that's a lot of years.
 Oh, is that right?
 Yeah, what are you guys doing for it?
 Yeah.
 Hum, that's sounds nice.  Are they looking forward to that?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, and, and can they stay there indefinitely?
 Can that, is that?  I don't know is that a long term stay place or is that a —
 Okay.
 Okay.  Um, how do you feel like you're holding out in terms of your mood?  Any periods of manias or elevated mood?
 I do, yeah.  I saw here a note that you, that they did a telemedicine thing with  [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Yeah, he was one of my instructors at [DEIDENTIFIED], yeah.
 Yeah.
 What, so tell me they, they wrote on here that he had some suggestions, and they're going to be sending me report?
 But did they get into any details with you about what he thought would be helpful or changes?
 Um—hum.
 But what do they think about those medicines?  They think you should be off of them?
 So tell, when you say the Haldol, the Ativan, and the GlycoLax what, what did they —
 What, I'm sorry [PATIENT NAME] I'm not sure that I'm tracking.  I know what you're taking and that does include the Haldol, the Ativan, but did they specifically mention it, did [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] mention those medicines?
 Lorazepam.
 And what did he say about them?
 Okay, do you, what do you feel about that?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum, and, and I know they've mentioned it because we had lowered dosages last time, that maybe you're a little less tired than you have been.  Does that seem accurate?
 Okay.
 Well, it just says that, that you'd talked to the people at, at, uh, [DEIDENTIFIED], [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], and that they'll forward some recommendations once received.  Um, that you haven't been as tired since the last medication change, and they said that it still seems like you're kind of struggling at times to really participate in any of the activities out at [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Why is that?
 You do feel very depressed?
 Okay.
 Um—hum.
 Um, do you, is, is the depression at all, feeling like life isn't worth living?  Is it involving suicidal thoughts?
 Yeah, okay.  Do you have things in the day that you do look forward to, that you do enjoy?
 Good.
 Yeah, you, no you do look you, are you getting some exercise?
 Okay.  Good.
 Where are you going to, to Curves or are you going to just to the Y these days?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Um, one of the, yeah one of the thoughts that I have, [PATIENT NAME], in terms in trying to treat kind of depression and bipolar illness —
 Yeah.
 Yeah, is, is trying to, uh, is trying to probably get you on a little bit higher level of your, um, your Depakote, again.
 Yeah, I know it's a, I'll be curious to see what [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] has to say.  I certainly respect him as a clinician.  I think one of the limitations may be at their system is that, you know, they didn't request any records from me, and you've got a long history with us.
 And, you know, for example he may be looking at your Depakote level and saying that it's a little bit on the low side, it is a touch on the low side, but what, what I know from your past experiences, you're not going to tolerate running you on, on very high levels.  You may tolerate bringing the dosage up a little more, and I think there's some room for that, but, you know, in theory we'd like to treat, see people, with, with Depakote at a level of say 80 to even 110 if they're tolerating it.  You haven't tolerated blood levels that high, and if, if [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] doesn't know that, for example, one of the things that he may look at and say well you might be able to eliminate some of these other medicines if you get the Depakote level up.  Well that's all well and good, but we, we've been there.  He may look at the Haldol and wonder about stopping the Haldol over the longer term or, or reducing some of the dose, but again, you know, what —
 Yeah, and I don't know either, like I said, what he may not know either in as much detail, and that's still unsure as well, something that you remember in your mind and something that I remember definitively is the long hospitalization that you had a couple of years ago, and one of the things that really seemed to be the difference in terms of finally breaking that up, is that in my mind was the Haldol, out of all the things that you tried during those, you know, really a few months —
 And so I, I, again there's some, there's some, well, I, let's read what he has to say and we'll go from there.  I think that we have some good options for treating depression yet for you.
 Um, you know, one of the, one of the things that, um, that I, I would like to do though is, is I think trying to get your Depakote dosage up just a little bit.
 Makes sense, and again I'd like to do it, given your sensitivity to some tremor and to some sedation, just a touch conservatively, but bring it up, um, at least 250 mg here, and, uh, and I, and I think it would be okay to try to raise your Celexa dose just a little bit too.  Okay.
 I would, um, I would do, I would kind of do both, um, and again, I think that's a good kind of double approach both in terms of being protected and being sensitive to somebody that we don't want to, you know, we don't want to induce manias but I understand that depression is, is the real burden of this illness, and we got to treat it more effectively for you.  Do you feel like at, at this point other than the sedation, do you feel like you're having any side effects from what we're treating you with?
 Yeah.
 Yes, I do understand that's never a good thing.  Do they do, I mean do you skip the things that you might even enjoy because you don't like the Activity Director?
 Okay.  Uh, the, how do you feel like you're doing with just anxiousness, nervousness through the day [PATIENT NAME]?  Is that, is that bothersome yet?
 Yeah.  Do you think that's any worse since we lowered the Ativan?
 I'm sorry, that's lorazepam, that's the one you get in the morning, in the afternoon, and at bedtime.  It's a small pill —
 For kind of an anti—anxiety medicine, but we cut the dosage in half about, uh, three weeks ago.
 With the, with the telephone call, yeah, yeah because [NAME OTHER] thought that you seeing in therapy, seemed a little bit sedated.
 How so?
 Okay.  We've got you on just a real low dose of it, um, one of the, one of the things I think we could do is if you really are, if you're still feeling pretty tired, is we could discontinue your, the oral Haldol, the pill form —
 And in a couple of weeks, we might be able to lower the Ativan then.  I would be in kind of inclined to let the Haldol get all out of your system before we maybe tried going without the Ativan.
 Um, because I, I think, you know, again I know you've had some kind of stiffness and some restlessness with the Haldol if we haven't, I mean the Cogentin that you're giving, that you're getting at night —
 Also helps with that.  The Ativan helps too, and I know that again in the past we've see you kind of restless and pacing if we've been too aggressive with your Haldo, but I think if we eliminate it and give it just a little bit of time to get out of your system, then we might create a little bit more room to stop the Ativan and again that might, both those may be some factors in helping you feel a little bit more wakeful, you know, through the day.
 So what I'm going to tell them is we're going to adjust your Celexa up, little bit to 30 mg.  We're going to increase your Depakote just by 250 mg at bedtime.  We're going to stop the pill form of Haldol that you take and still continue the injectable.
 You are getting the injectable, yeah.
 You're getting, you're getting a real low dose pill form and the injectable form of Haldol.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, and that ones not a medicine I'm prescribing.
 No, that's coming, that's coming from whoever's, whoever the primary care doctor is out there.
 Do you know who that is?  Do you ever see him, anybody?
 Yeah.
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 Is that right?
 Why?
 How long you think it's been since you've seen [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 It's just been a month since you've seen him?
 How long do you think?
 Just a couple months since you've seen [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].  Okay, so he's still regularly involved in your care?
 Yeah, well then —
 Yeah.
 But, and I understand, so it may not be that you any, but, you know, probably seeing your internist, I understand there are real no acute internal medicine problems, but yeah I, I guess my thought would be just seeing him at least once a year is reasonable, but it sounds like you're keeping some regular contact.  It's just not, you haven't seen him in a couple of months is all, you know, if you have problems they'll, you can get back out to see him too, and I'm going to have them, [PATIENT NAME], fax the report from [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] when they get it.
 Um—hum.
 Oh, okay.  Do you know, do you know the nature of this project?  Will, will he, will they, will doctor, will you see [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] again?
 Okay.
 So does he actually come in and —
 Does he come, does he actually come in, in person?
 Oh, sure they do it by that —
 They do it by that ICN network.
 I'm making some definite changes, and I've made notes for them.
 And then I'll ask them to check a level of your Depakote in a week after we've made that change, okay [PATIENT NAME]?
 And otherwise, you're really in pretty good shape in terms of your labs.  Um, I don't think there's anything we need to do because in February we got everything and everything looked good.  Uh, and so we're, um, I think the only thing I haven't checked is just, uh, we'll check a Depakote level and platelets and then, uh, we'll make you that, I'll give you, you want me to put this back in the envelope for you?
 Now, I'd like to see you if he's changed a few, I want to see you back in a month, okay?
 So we'll, we'll keep on track again.  I though I think —
 Really, make it longer?
 Okay.
 Well, I, I, don't believe she hates you.  I believe that they may want to be encouraging you to do things —
 And that sometimes creates tension.
 But like I said take an objective look at what the activities are, and, and if it looks like it could be fun, give it a try.  Most of the people I know when they go out and do some of those things extra, they're pleasantly surprised that there was some enjoyment to it that they didn't anticipate.
 I told them, well I told them six weeks, but I know that you're, you know, they're keeping track of things there too, so if, if there are problems you call me sooner, okay?
 All right, hope you enjoy the, hope you enjoy the anniversary and the, and the visit from your daughter.
 Yeah, I'd like to watch this session, have you watch this session and what I'm interested in is to get a sense of the relationship you have with Janice and what kind of-what the awareness is of what you're saying in terms of how she may be responding, reacting and what impact the relationship has on what's going on.
 Well you know the fact is that this session happened quite awhile ago so you might actually end up speaking more in generalities than-there might be times when I'm going to stop the tape and sort of say, "Do you remember what was going on for you, what you were thinking?" Because really what we're interested in is sort of the quality of the relationship you have with Janice and what you feel is going on between the two of you sometimes, is there a certain distance, a certain closeness at times, that kind of thing. 
 Absolutely.
 Yeah, yeah that's very much, the model is very much that scenario, you use the relationship with the patient to sort of ground your understanding of what's going on, what might be going on with them and then to sort of serve as a laboratory for how they might be dealing with people outside.
So I'll just play a little in the beginning, just to sort of orient you to the session [indiscernible] [00:02:15 ]. You know again, there's some difficult parts.
 Yeah but you know it's all such moving and wonderful work and people [indiscernible] [00:02:33 ] achieving in here. So you should be proud of it.
 [Indiscernible] [00:02:44 ] What was your understanding of that?
 Yeah what was it? Because my understanding is the.
 So is that what you said? Because you were just sort of like-what was it that you asked?
 A choice?
 So you were telling him about therapy and that you think you might need medication and he said [inaudible] [00:05:36 ]?
 Do you feel like you're having a hard time thinking what. I wanted to ask you about that.
 Sure, and there was a certain discomfort on your part trying to sort of explain what this meant to you or your [inaudible] [00:07:46 ] with it and feeling like, "Well what's she thinking about this? She must think I'm crazy." Kind of stuff.
 And what is that? What happens then for you?
 You get frustrated.
 I would never have guessed that you were feeling frustrated then, it's funny.
 Oh interesting, let's just watch a little bit more on this following tape. [00:09:02].
 So you're not sure if I believe you?
 Well if I didn't believe it, what [inaudible] [00:09:38 ]?
 Yeah I could-yeah I mean I guess but I think what I was kind of questioning more was something about speaking to me do you really feel heard in a very deep sense and I just kind of-
 No that wasn't where I was going but is that something that you think of in terms of-in terms of this? [Inaudible] [00:10:22 ]
 There was something I liked about the way you were so direct there and you laughed. What was going on for you?
 Just now, you just laughed and you said, "You mean whether I feel heard by you," or something. You just asked Janice it seems like a direct question.
 Is it now, would you be able to say that here it - you have the feeling of not being heard or you just were aware of being heard?
 Did you have the - a sense of hearing her at this time, do you remember?
 Yeah.
 I wanted to stop again, I think this is interesting in that it seems a bit like maybe, you know, you were saying you felt a little frustrated but it's hard to hear your frustration. In a way I feel, when I was watching this I thought you were in a way, letting Janice off the hook by saying, "Oh but it's the nature of the short term treatment as opposed to [inaudible] [00:13:41 ]." It might be something with her or-did you feel that? Were you tempering what you were saying at all? Do you have that sense then?
 Right, so there wasn't really that strong sort of frustration.
 Certain parts of [inaudible] [00:14:37 ].
 And there's something about Janice sort of staying with you and kind of tolerating part of those feelings that you brought in that really felt healing to you.
 Well you know there's a difference in you I have to say. I see a real difference, I see a real calm in you or-
 No I know, no I see [inaudible] [00:17:32 ].
 Oh really? How nice. Congratulations.[00:17:59 ].
 Good for you.
 You know I didn't, I looked more at earlier sessions and then I looked at the [inaudible] [00:18:17 ] this session and the prior session. So I'm maybe more updated on that towards the end.
 I might have been the only one sort of taking a particular interest in the sessions. A lot of times they're shown in supervision but since Janice is an experienced [inaudible] [00:18:39 ] therapist, a lot of times that-she didn't need to go through that process. But you know occasionally if there was some issue or problem she felt was coming up between the two of you, she'd share that.
 Okay. I'm going to forward that a little bit.
[Watching videotape of previous therapy session]
 By - ?
 Well I don't know if [inaudible] [00:19:28 ] I'm the same way. I don't mind if someone videotaped my therapy and like just wanted to talk about it.
 It's wonderful to have all that attention though and interest, you know.
 Well good. Not everyone feels that way.
 Here?
 Before [inaudible] [00:20:09 ]?
 That sounds familiar. Betty [Inaudible] [00:20:13 ].
 Oh really? Oh [inaudible] [00:20:21 ].
 What kind of name is [inaudible] [00:20:33 ]?
 I just have to sit and listen and catch up.
[Videotape turned on]
 I just-I wanted to make that - just another comment. It seemed to me in the later sessions that I watched, that you have-just starting to sort of catch yourself and the way you sort of would stay in the moment, I think I was feeling a little defensive with you or, I'm aware of not feeling so good now and then I was feeling good before. I mean I was wondering if that was sort of a part of because that's sort of the model of therapy here to just slow things down until you get that you're pretty well aware of you r feelings. And it seems like that's something that you've started to do.
 Can we go back a minute to what you were saying about the concern that comes up for you when you think you feel okay and then you come in here and [inaudible] [00:23:21 ].
 And you think that there shouldn't be or you don't want there to be or what?
 So as you're watching it now you're just-
 So I think there's a lot going on for you right now about what it means that this is - that there's seven sessions left and that you have become aware of [inaudible] [00:24:59] vulnerable feelings and at this point that doesn't seem to be a - those feelings aren't diminished. If anything they feel stronger to you and.
 What would you see?
 [Inaudible] [00:26:18]
 That was a real display of something to determine nature - the frustration.
 Yeah.
 But you're not frozen here.
 You know and that's the most - I mean I haven't been - I haven't seen a lot of the sessions but that's the most [inaudible] [00:28:40] really I've seen you in terms of physically moving and your voice is loud and ...
 There's just a lot being expressed in that.
 That's the frustration?
 And the frustration was with?
 Yeah.
 I was wondering a little bit about your [inaudible] [00:29:57] to check me at this point. It was just - is it that you're more sort of involved in some - in working through this frustration and getting out of it in the moment? You're moving it - moving it and expressing it or.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
[Videotape started]
 You shouldn't.
[Videotape stopped]
 The shift between would be so.
 Animated to the point of.
 You're being really independent.
 You said here if I'm critical first maybe you won't be critical of me. So I'm wondering if there is maybe at the same time that there's - I just wondering about that. That there might be some way that like Janice watches or [inaudible] [00:31:57]
 And so you're awareness with Janice was sort of like that critical part.
 And watching this thinking.
 You know what's she going on about it or what - what is the [inaudible] [00:32:47] or whatever. (laughs)
 Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Got it.
[Videotape started]
 [Inaudible] [00:33:06] You - you're.
 You're aware of feeling -concerned about my criticism - about that.
 I just want to be clear to it.
 Oh. So does [inaudible] [00:34:32] having said - acknowledged that?
[Videotape stopped]
 No. Did you want me to?
 Just that it's a real - that it seemed to me that there was just so much exposure. Know what I'm saying?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So you're saying you're [inaudible] [00:37:26] You think that combination like no one knows. That feeling when [inaudible] [00:37:46] you feel the pressure and you can feel.
 The frustration that you that you do often [inaudible] [00:37:56].
 So whenever you say yeah that's me - if [inaudible] [00:38:06] at a different level.
 [Inaudible] [00:38:15] happen right there.
 And trying - just doing there.
 See even like this [Inaudible] [00:38:49] 
 [Inaudible] [00:39:21] you're talking [inaudible] [00:39:23]
 So you kind of already pulling away?
 Right.
 And that's kind of what you do say right now. How can I say that? But I'm wondering if that wasn't though you're experience and there's a certain honesty that you - that you're just coming up with that saying I did feel alone [inaudible] [00:40:32] And then I was.
 I don't - I wanted to ask you what it felt like because it - I just I did feel alone. I didn't feel like you were there ... which is essentially what you said here.
 And then if someone's being honest and maybe I was thinking that that was difficult for you to say [inaudible] [00:40:52].
 Yeah it would.
 You feel alone in your neediness and you said that. In some sense you said I felt alone just now. I believe - I think you need - you were having to or whatever which I imagine would be a difficult thing to say. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 I do.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. Okay. Well let's just - some [inaudible] [00:42:42] that was interesting just from an exchange.
[Videotape started]
 Okay. I was wondering what went on.
 I guess I was wondering if you had any sense of ... of ... it seemed to me a bit like you were qualifying it - like it - don't see the person. I wouldn't have done this unless.
 You know like don't get hurt here. 
 Like that was old and dark and that wasn't.
 So that there was again the concern with the - with Janice.
 Feeling.
 Oh I know.
 Yeah I do. I do know.
 Yeah. Yeah. I guess I'm kind of going after sort of maybe the more problematic aspect. And you're sensing that and saying well but let's put it in the context of my being very much help if I.
 With the therapy. And I realize.
 I do realize.
 Just tell me to back off if it gets [inaudible] [00:45:05]
 What did it feel like to say that to Janice or like to like to own up to my - do you.
 Yeah.
 I'm big on depending [inaudible] [00:47:15]. (laughs)
 Apparently. But it's.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Oh yeah. I think it's essential.
 It - but here it's like you're saying you know God I'm really dependent on you. But is there a sense of feeling that along with the words for you?
 Let's just watch a little bit more of this.
[Videotape started]
 Yeah. That's the sad thing about this emptiness. You [inaudible] [00:49:14] thinking that you're protecting yourself. But the reality is you're using [inaudible] [00:49:19] you don't want.
 That's why it's so important to understand this. I mean trying to [inaudible] [00:49:25]
 Well I get the sense you [inaudible] [00:49:31] this [inaudible] [00:49:34] pressure and you feel a pressure and it holds you from having a memory - to hang onto the things that [inaudible] [00:49:39] you're going to be.
 What do you mean kind of relation?
 Yeah. To like in the moment in terms of how painful it is to ... and also to kind of power this inside about how you might [inaudible] [00:51:15] from other in a state of having to confront your needs. I mean I think it's fine that I'm.
[Videotape stopped]
 What's that? Your mother.
 How is it and what did it feel like to come out? What happened when you said - I get the feeling something [inaudible] [00:51:37] for you.
 Were you - do you remember that?
 Yeah. Do you remember though what the feeling was when you saw the look in her eye?
 So you wanted to get caught up in it? You wanted her to kind of?
 [Inaudible] [ 00:52:17] you wanted to tell her.
 Let me say something that I really want to underscore because when you say I'm going to [inaudible] [00:52:47] through fingers part of what I feel is that ... you have increasing been able to drop yourself by identifying and moving away from things - recognizing feelings distant or you recognize that you want to [inaudible] [00:53:05] I mean and that's not the only way you do it. [Inaudible] [00:53:10] 
That kind of [inaudible] [00:53:15] that I'm not sure you could give yourself as much credit for and if you could I mean to a point. I'm not stopping you any time. You - I mean you stop and you said I have the feeling you're not interested in this but that came from you. That came from your awareness that something should be there. 
 Also [inaudible] [00:53:42] I don't mean to [inaudible] [00:53:48] you don't have any faith [inaudible] [00:53:51] but I think you know [inaudible] [00:53:54] but.
[Videotape stopped] 
 How about when you watch it now? What you do think about?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah. [inaudible] [00:54:41] feeling good. Yeah.
 Good.
[Videotape started]
 [Inaudible] [00:55:39]
 But that's because it's really about you and it's about understanding you - not only for you but for our relationship. It's not about me.
 I think I wonder if there's a really - okay here I go, we'll go through the trouble again. And then put the - a bit of - a little piece of satisfaction I think ... with the fact that's happening so far - I mean in that.
 That you use the word - it's just amazing to me in that sort of ... like I'm just wondering if that was sort of covering up.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right. Right.
 Right. Yes.
 Right. So when you made this comment it was just sort of - just some sort of - just speak generally about your?
 Yeah. Yeah. I mean I was just wondering if there wasn't some - some of that in that comment that it could be uncomfortable. It might not be dissatisfaction for it to be.
 It might be uncomfortable to.
 Okay.
 Yeah. It is.
 There's a big difference. But again sort of [inaudible] [00:59:13] in terms now I'm just constructing this myself so there's no way to tell - [inaudible] [00:59:18] in terms it won't be hurtful to Janice. 
 That's kind of always in the back down there that not.
 Okay. Tell me if this is - does not feel right. I mean.
 Right. Right.
 That she wanted to understand. And you wanted her to understand that you knew that this.
 That this relationship [inaudible] [00:60:43].
 And that it was a therapeutic matter.
 Okay.
[Videotape started]
 What do you think would be the difference that meant if you were able to do that? I mean just kind of assertive yourself and be with [inaudible] [00:61:49] people.
 And [inaudible] [00:61:58] tune in. 
 Worrying what you meant.
 What made you think that?
 Well you were [inaudible] [00:63:16].
(Laughter)
 Well you just did pick something up because part of what that expression was there's - I think my reaction to that was something about that sound - I understand what you're saying that you want to just [inaudible] [00:63:36] get through - not avoid it. But something about the way you were describing that sounds so ... like deprivation. And I can't allow myself to have.
 Well I wouldn't think it's so much show. We could talk about that but my opinion on it was I can't allow myself to have pleasant. I have to deal with this. You know which is a pretty.
 What was that like for you to have heard?
 That's representative?
 Yeah. It's more the critical boom, boom, boom.
 No. I know these things that you believe in.
 Right. Right. Right. Sort of punitive, super ego is what they call it and it.
 Punitive super ego.
 Well the punitive is a punishing - the super ego is a part of your [inaudible] [00:65:08] experience. Psychology that sort of tells you what to do with you know.
 That part of you - it's the dictator of your brain.
 Basically so it's telling you what you need to do - you should do without using [inaudible] [00:65:22]
 To take care of. Yeah.
 You hang out with people who don't have a punitive super ego.
(Laughter)
 No.
(Laughter)
 You watch with me but I would like to get your - some feedback from you about how you found this - this process and.
 Did there seem to be a little [inaudible] [00:66:09] about it - a little tension between us? [Inaudible] [00:66:12] experience this way and let you know. No well that's not it.
 Oh don't let me out of hook. Maybe I was pushing you a little bit. 
 Yeah.
 It's hard to think about this stuff.
 It really is. [Think of this - think of that] (ph).
 Yeah. I would - a lot of the research is interested in is sort of the quality of the relationship - how the patient and the therapist has experience with each other. 
 And how to use that too.
 So and help it. 
 Help move the therapy along.
 So that's why I was sort of asking if there was a certain awareness with Janice and her moves and her expressions that was sort of maybe underneath the surface. But that did sort of guide your own [inaudible] [00:68:03]
 Not in the beginning?
 No. Okay.
 So after you got to know her better and?
 And that would sort of - sort of - I don't know - get your attention or something?
 You can't do what?
 Yeah.
 No. What is your usual trick?
 I want it all Maddie. I want it all tonight too. (laughs)
 No. You've given me a lot. So and I don't want to force anything so.
 So unless you have anything else [inaudible] [00:69:52].
(Laughter)
 I so appreciate your coming back here tonight.
 No. No. No.
 Yeah.
 Well if you come back to us I promise you you'll never have to do this again. 
(Laughter)
 The questionnaires you'll have to do but not this - the.
 This was a one shot deal for.
 [Inaudible] [00:70:23]
 As long as I've worked here which is now two years and two patients have come back. [Inaudible] [00:70:50]
 Oh sure. Sure.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah definitely. But there are reasons why people want to go into a short term therapy. They want to work on something. They don't want to spend forever.
 Yeah exactly. They don't want to - they have a terrible fear of the kind of therapy that's going to go on and on forever and it's a legitimate fear.
 So it's nice to let therapy motivate them to make that happen too.
 Oh yeah.
 But maybe now that you've made a change of therapy you can acknowledge that you want to get out of it and [inaudible] [00:71:31] to do that.
 It's about the kind of instrument - I mean it feels different from.
 Yeah and we would - you know Janice or the office would certainly give you other referrals if you want them.
 For your long term - come back to the institute, decide on something short term. 
 Oh you're so welcome.
 Bye-bye. Take care.
 Ok.
 Ok.
 Ok.
 Ok. Well, I'm glad you're here.
 I think it's always really good that people wish to improve themselves and work on some of these things. Everyone has issues. And everyone has problems. You agree your different to do this. Did you ever get therapy before?
 Ok.
 (inaudible at 0:01:25.0) So I guess, can you tell me a specific fact that would best illustrate?
 Right.
 Right. So let's sort out the topic a little. So what does he do that makes you think?
 Right, right.
 Yeah, It sounds like you have very good insight into what's going on.
 Right, right. But then I think that the moment it's happening that insight's not there.
 Right. You get hurt and angry (inaudible at 0:03:41.1). How does it get resolved?
 So at the time that you're real stressed out and you're kind of venting or (inaudible at 0:04:21.8) and he is not 100 percent attentive to you and kind of get off into other things.
 Then what thoughts pop into your head?
 Um hmm.
 Right. So what you're telling me is that people have different way of doing things.
 Right.
 Right, right. So at that moment do you think, he doesn't me or he shouldn't be doing this or he shouldn't be doing that. When your thinking starts, what's the emotion that you feel? 0:05:55.5
 Right.
 Right. So when you think that, when you're really convinced that someone doesn't love you of course you feel very, very, hurt.
 Very pained.
 So a theory that we use here, the reason why you feel the unhealthy emotions we call it. Unhealthy means you're very, very hurt. It could mean anxious. It could be depressed. The reason why you think this, have these feelings is the way you think about things. If you're thinking, "He really doesn't love me. He doesn't love me enough." Then you're going to feel very, very hurt.
 So how we change that unhealthy emotion to healthy negative emotion is we change our thinking about things.
 Right? So that's kind of, that's the philosophy I will do here.
 Right. So it's not like you let's say someone hurt you, we don't want you to be indifferent about it.
 You can be disappointed. But we don't want you to feel so hurt that you're doing thing that are mean or you're distressed.
 We'll see that unhealthy negative substitute a more healthy one, right?
 And we'll do that by looking to see what our irrational reasons are.
 Ok? So why do you think you act irrationally?
 Right.
 Right, right. Only from the positive that you get out of feeling this way or thinking this way. 0:08:57.7
 All right. In thinking that way, how does this advantage to you?
 Right, right. So how do show, do you love people? You do right?
 Right. You sound like you do. Just the way you describe your fiancé it sounds like you love him a lot.
 Your pain gives him pain because of there's a lot of love there.
 So can you define for me what your definition of you loving someone is like?
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm. That's how you should love. You should love passionately (inaudible 0:12:23.6) about it. You know you love him that much that he went away when (inaudible at 0:12:29.4) and said that. He almost believed (inaudible at 0:12:32.3).
 Now just like a couple of minutes ago we said people do different things.
 So how many examples do you know who show love differently? Do you know who show they love someone, it could be the movies, it could be real life. You know for sure this person love someone but they show love differently than you do. How do they show love? 0:12:51.0
 Um hmm. Right.
 Right. And I think just by hearing you talk about it it's not like you said I mention it a lot. It's more like (inaudible at 0:14:36.6) other people's feelings, other people's thoughts. So what's the point of doing too much (inaudible at 0:14:39.6) kind of your ideals and how you see things onto them.
 Right?
 If they don't do that then you take it as an expression of how they feel about you.
 Right, right.
 Right.
 Um hmm. So, ok, so it's good. So what do you think gets in the way of you thinking rationally in that situation?
 Um hmm.
 Right, right.
 Right, right. How often does this happen?
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Right, right. 0:18:25.3
 That's, I understand what you're saying. I feel your pain.
 Yeah, so that's very frequently when things happen you're going to like think (inaudible at 0:18:42.7) of things to walk away and feel rejected and feel like nobody loves you. That's an automatic conclusion you're jumping to.
 So that's your thought. What can you say to dispute it?
 Right. 0:19:03.6
 Uh huh.
 Why not? Why don't you just let it, why don't you let this mantra work?
 As a woman, I don't think that no matter how much he says he loves you, how much he says (inaudible at 0:20:05.0) your convinced that no one can love you.
 Right, exactly, exactly. You don't believe it.
 I mean right now right now that emotion's out. You can't rationalize it. All you are is, I don't say emotion, but the moment you're convinced in your head that he doesn't love you.
 But you think that you're not really disputing the thought.
 You're not really buying into it.
 So let's think about now. Did you say it is love, how can you dispute it?
 Um hmm. Just for a second. You can't be biased when you're in love. 0:21:02.6
 You want (inaudible at 0:21:03.6)
 You know how hard it is to do it when you're in love.
 Right, right.
 You know what do you have to do to be loved?
 So do you have to be 100 percent lovable to be loved?
 Right, right.
 Right. That is the last thing you'd want. If you're not 100 percent perfectly lovable then you don't care to be loved.
 So when will you get to the point where you're 100 percent lovable?
 Right, right. 0:24:39.6
 Um hmm. So I think you are, you can actually think this is weird and still you hold on to it so tightly.
 Because if you give it up how would your life be different?
 Right. When you're so used to thinking one way for so long it's very hard to make that change. Especially if it comes very fast.
 It's hard to kind of step out of yourself and then try to think differently.
 Right?
 So I understand it's so wonderful we had this talk and it's wonderful you understand it. Of course you can't do it but I think you want to.
 Right.
 Right. So what else have you tried?
 Um hmm.
 Right. But they're not you though.
 Great.
 Right, right.
 It's not like you need (inaudible at 0:27:26.1), which is (inaudible at 0:27:30.0) all that we mentioned. You tried to work at it.
 So it's going to be a lot of work
 Right.
 Right.
 Ok, good. So I think one thing, part of (inaudible at 0:28:11.7) a lot of work should be done at home when you're not upset. Because when you're making behavior changes or habit changes and thinking that comes so natural to you and you don't have to work at it. So usually we all look forward at the end of the session. Look at it and find out what worked, if it didn't work we try different things and go on.
 Ok you already said that you hurt pretty often. Every other day because you're really in a close relationship with your fiancé.
 So I would think one thing to maybe track down those times when you do get upset.
 Yeah, so you know, I'm not expecting you not to be emotionally upset. It's going to happen. I shouldn't hold you to that standard either. Because why should you not get upset? It's something you've been doing for a long time.
 Don't be, what I'm trying to say is, you tend to beat up yourself when you become that way. 0:29:01.2
 But it's almost like why would you expect less now? Why would you not expect that if that's the way you've been all along?
 You could just say it's hard that for how long?
 Ok. It's not going to change overnight.
 But keep telling yourself I'm working at it. I'm working at it.
 Now will that be enough for you?
 It's good.
 It's a start.
 Right, right. The reason I'm asking is because you tend to have the perfect idea...
 That's what I'm saying. It's not going to happen immediately.
 It's not going to happen fast. It's a habit you've had for 24 years. For that to go away you're going to be working to fight it. But quit beating yourself up over it every time you don't succeed or you don't get the outcome that you want then you find that you get deeper set back or down about it. 0:30:04.8
 The first step is like always difficult because of allowing yourself saying I thought this was really going to change overnight. Where you're at, this was the right direction.
 But if that's the right direction, you know.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Right. Absolutely.
 Right, right.
 How about - (laughs.)
 This is good. This is great. Thank you.
Okay. And for you, thank you.
I would like to let you know, I'm going to be out the week of Christmas. So  - 
 The week that Christmas falls in, so yeah, for us it would be the 20 - because isn't it on Tuesday?
 Okay. That probably - well let me make a note for that. I think that's pretty close. 
How are you?
 Yeah? What was going on, because you called me.
 Wow. 0:01:45.8
 When is your deadline?
 Okay.
 Are you asking me? 0:02:54.5
 I think you already know how you feel about it.
 And that's what it was in Tucson too?
 Yeah. How had you wanted it to be different this time, because you sound pretty mad that you see  - 
 Yeah. If I can make there.
 How do you account for that? What - I mean, you say that part of you sees that as a reasonable question.
 If you left Tucson - I'm not going to say that I agree that Tucson beat you down, but  - 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And it didn't play out.
 Now what was that like to not have that happen here?
 Yeah. What did you start thinking about yourself, or about Chicago?
 Yes.
 All right. What's it like to be talking to me about this right now?
 How did you do that? 0:08:59.9
 And is that a pretty - you say it's reliable, that it always works. Is that something you make use of frequently?
 Smoking more pot or just from that one time?
 Oh, my.
 Yeah.
 Boy. Now  - 
 So last time you told me about sort of the transition from dreading going to a party to feeling at ease and comfortable and unselfconscious. And I wonder if you can slow that down with this, from feeling - because I was going to say - when you were saying, you know, that bad things get me in this horrible vice-grip. And I was going to say, what's that like? Then I realized well, I think she just  - 
 But can you say any more about that? Like it sounds to me like - I get the impression that you're trying and trying and trying to find a way out of it, and you just can't.
 Yeah.
 Just yeah.
 How are you doing that? How - because you told me about it before this sort of dissolving the whole idea that there was a problem, but how exactly did you do that? 
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 All right, okay. So it makes you more comfortable, but it really doesn't  - 
 - help you address anything.
 So - but the pot sort of shook you up or gave you - what would you say? What would you say it was like? I mean, you said suddenly you had a sense of well being that you hadn't had before.
 Okay. And you said that you had in the past used also other ways of just shaking yourself up and getting yourself out of a bad kind of funk or bad mental - what are some of the other ways? 0:13:43.3
 Ecstasy. So - 
 Okay.
 Well. 
 How do you account for this, that you've never had a bad trip and even when you were in a really bad funk you could take acid and you would feel happy? 0:14:34.1
 Without your trip, so to speak. 0:15:04.4
 Seeing things with your  - 
 I'm beginning to sense - I'm getting the sense that when you get really stuck in a bad sort of spiral or funk or whatever word we might use you have a feeling that it's something that you're actively doing. Your mind is making, and you are not able to stop it making it. That's how it feels?
 Yeah. And so if you take drugs or something that shakes you up, and you stop making it and some fresh experience. And this habitual repetition of something flattens up or just stops. You can drop it, something like that.
Can you be anymore specific about what it is when you're going round and round in circles in this shitty stuff, like what - like this time was the interview. You said it was so terrible and it really blew. What was terrible and how did it make you feel?
 This is something that we've talked about when you said you could tell me things with a - okay, so, and you were doing that in the interview?
 How did it feel like to not be there?
 Because I get the sense that it's just exhausting. It's just kind of like what you were describing last time when you went to the Thanksgiving dinner, it was so much mental effort. 0:17:05.7
 Oh, right, because you were trying to be the right  - 
 - say something wrong or do something wrong, and so you couldn't be spontaneous. 
 How?
 That's sort of outside the box. I'm going to do something illegal - (laughs.)
 Yeah, and especially if you're trying to be Miss Perfect, you know, Miss Perfect is not allowed to say, hey, what the hell did you just do with your rook, you know? 
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 He gave you stuff to start?
 Oh, I see, so two weeks.
 Yeah. 0:19:59.6
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's very painful. And I know that this is the last thing that you want to hear me ask you, but can you say more about the whole humiliating?
 Right.
 Which was more like  - 
 So did she mean by that, because what I hear in that is so then you better plan on wiping my ass.
 Yeah. 0:22:56.7
 Yeah.
 She - what did she say?
 Okay. 
Now - so that's the picture that you get, is four years of ass wiping. But what does that mean for you or for your future or for your chances?
 Yeah.
 So the $400 plane ticket is part of this downward path.
 And Susan can't take care of the cat.
 Yeah.
 Oh my.
 Oh, she has a cat.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible at 0:25:59.1)
 Right. Now you were talking about wiping asses, and is your cat a little bit similar situation of a high-maintenance, high-love, highly active thing and you can't rely on her to do for you what you would probably do for her cat.
 And so you're - you are already thinking that this is going to spoil your Christmas, or might. And the way you're looking at it right now  - 
 You think you'll be able to do that?
 Yeah. You first of all, you cried, which is something that you have a lot of feelings about the prospect of doing when I talked to you in the past. How did that sit with you?
 Yeah, it was a very controlled kind of cry. How did you get it under control?
 So it was a little bit like the interview.
 Working really hard. Well let me not say, how is your life like the interview?
 Okay, the effort.
 Almost like everybody's got their gears spinning, but you can actually perceive that, at least sometimes.
 Yeah, than other people.
And you told me last time that you wish you didn't have so much. What would be the bad thing that might happen in here with me that if you didn't get that crying under control right away.
 I was mentally  - 
 - myself. So did you feel like your tears were not welcomed in advance? The red carpet of tissue wasn't rolled out for that?
 To stop crying rather than have this inconvenient water line.
 Anything else?
 Didn't want to do it because  - 
 You just  - 
 Would it less bad if it were not on camera?
 Why?
 Yes, non-private.
 And what will they think? 0:30:39.8
 You want to leave right now?
Is there something that I can do to make this less awful for you?
 I feel like you're holding on as hard as you can. 
 What would I think of you if you did?
 I'm trying not to look at you because I don't want you to feel  - 
 (Laughs.) You're entertaining me. 
 Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear you properly. You said say something because I want to leave now.
 Oh.
 Wallowing - you would just sink into it and never get up again. Is that it?
 I'd kick you out.
 You talked before about how with some of your friends, you're able to feel safe enough for each other to do this kind of thing, just letting yourself cry or fall apart. And one thing that came up for you when you told me about it earlier was the thought that in that kind of a situation you would be able to hug each other and be able to support each other in that way. Would I be able to do that, would I be willing to do that, would I pretend it, you know. The answer was, sorry I can't do that
 What's the difference? You said this is an artificial situation, an inhospitable situation that's not - (inaudible at 0:35:06.3).
 Yeah. I wonder - you know, I could easily be wrong. I wonder if you wonder if I really care.
 I'm not quite sure what bounded means. Like  - 
 To not get hurt.
 If I got sucked in by all my patients because I really cared about them, what would that be like for me? 0:37:08.3
 What would it be like? It'd be overwhelming? I'd get overwhelmed?
 That I'd have to put a limit on it or climb up out of it probably by getting intellectual as soon as you're gone.
 You would like to know if  - 
 What? 
 So silence is guilt.
 Well, I - it's - I acknowledge that this is a very difficult question. I could try and wrestle this articulating my dilemmas with you, but I don't know how useful it would be to you. And that's open to discussion. 0:39:47.5
 Okay.
 Okay. I feel like this moving away from a fear of being overwhelmed by feelings by getting involved with ideas and intellectual things is something that we have done in this conversation in the past 15 minutes. I actually don't really do that in life. I mean, with my work that I do here. 0:40:55.3
 I do think about it. 
 Not all thinking is intellectual. Not all thinking is cerebral and proposition. There's also feeling about it.
 Yeah.
 I have to do forms like that too. And it's rather odd. I mean, maybe you feel odd in a similar way where you muck around in feelings, and sometimes they're very inchoate or mysterious or scary, then have go and produce some numbers. What's that like? 0:42:17.3
 It has to do with somebody else's needs and not yours. 0:43:05.3
 You resent it?
 Yeah, including yours.
 But, this treatment as a whole is not your five minutes. Do you have other doubts about the treatment that you're getting and the work that we do here in general?
 Which is what you asked me for when you first came.
 What did it say?
 And what would it be like if you could.
 So you feel like this treatment is going to feel, and I already know that.
 How many sessions would it take to fix you up?
 If we were on track toward fixing you up, what kind of things would we be doing here?
 You told me that you assumed that the way that I - you had some really intense feelings come up for you, and you struggled very hard against them in this session. And you told me that part of the reason for that was that you were afraid of being overwhelmed by them, and that the session would end and I would walk away from you I guess. I would say, come on, get out, move along, that session's done now. I'll see you in a week. Right?
 Right. So I would have - rather than fixing you up, I would have been unfixing you and then dumping you.
 That's too harsh?
 It has to be because  - 
 This artificial limiting structure thing full of boundaries and prohibitions.
 And then you asked me, do you do this, Evan. When I go out of the room, do I become - do you pull back your - whatever feelings you had during the session and just relate to ideas. Is that an accurate - I'm not saying literal, but like is that kind of  - 
 No.
 Partly to keep myself safe.
 And you really wanted to know if I did this or not, and you imply - and I want to understand if that's what you meant - I will - I, Lynn, will not make myself vulnerable if you're not making yourself vulnerable.
 When you - when - now, I'm struggling with my feelings. 0:50:12.5
 And  - 
 Why would I do that?
 I was actually trying not to cry, and what I was trying to do is tell you that earlier in the session when you said that you wanted to leave, it was very moving to me and kind of shocking. And I almost did cry then.
 Really? Why didn't you?
 So you don't have the freedom here? You have to be a good subject.
 You have to comply. You owe me something.
 This whole thing  - 
 - this whole shebang. The hospital, the whole building is part of it. The microphone on the floor is part of it. The video camera  - 
 Okay. So what would be - what would - the main things that would be different are you wouldn't have to be - no camera, no sense of a supervisor looming over my shoulder, no questionnaires to fill out, and maybe I would bring you coffee. You said that before.
 Very nice, sort of Danish, modern  - 
 Do you feel - you told me last time that you - there was no particular - that I in particular don't - you don't have the same self-consciousness with me that you have with other people. But I sometimes feel like you are working very hard to be the right kind of patient, either for - is it either for this study or for me?
 Well, like you said, tell me how to do this right because I want to do this right, and I'm just asking you, I could have just looked on the Internet and tried it out all by myself. 
 Speed it up. 0:53:47.1
 Huh?
 No, I'm - do you have to go right now?
 We started a little late.
Can you wait for five more minutes?
 Well we had some strong feelings in this session. And I feel like, sometimes I felt like - a little bit like we were wrestling with each other. Sometimes I wondered if you felt like I was trying to force you into having some kind of emotional experience in front of me. Did you feel like that?
 Trick you?
 Push you?
 Oh. Do you not think that I am bad? 
 (Laughs.) 
 Okay. Boy, I feel a little lost right now. You think - I don't know, maybe I was. I don't know, maybe I was trying to push you into something prefabricated, which would not be what I would want to try to do.
 Do you want to know?
 Well, it's neutral. But it's - I'm glad that you told me that you kind of felt while it was happening that maybe I was going to  - 
 - a little bit.
 Okay. I - am I always pulling for the negative fantasy  - 
 - that you have about me?
 Should I just quit? 0:56:15.1
 Would we save a lot of time?
 (Laughs.) All right. I wondered what it was like for you - I wondered if part of you - I felt like part of you was ashamed.
 I felt like maybe a little part of you was relieved, because to come in - you know Chekov said if there's a gun on the table in act one it has to go off in act three. You came in and said I never cry in front of therapists, and if I do cry in front of you, it'll either be a big achievement or it'll be because you've completely broken me down.
 Yes.
 So the gun was kind of on the table. And I'm not going to say that it's fired yet. Or I mean - yet it sounds like life has a three act structure, which it doesn't. But it told me that for probably layers of reasons, the issue of crying in front of a therapist was a complicated one for you, probably because there's all these structures of suppositions like crying in front of your therapist is good. 
It's an achievement to let your feelings out, but also you've told me I don't want to feel certain things. I don't want to sink in to certain things. I don't - I'm afraid of going all the way into certain things because I think I will just like fall off and never come back.
 Right.
 And you felt like this information is very toxic to anybody that might see how bad it is for you, see how much you're hurting.
 If your real face could say something, what would it be?
 Yeah. 1:00:23.0
 Well, almost, but I wanted to say - (laughs.) 
Well, I feel somehow like there's loose ends or like there's things I should be checking in with you about. Or basically, what can I learn for the future to make this better for Jessica. I feel a push to gather that information before we stop.
 I guess what I meant is that - part of what I meant was the way that we work together. But it sounds like you got pretty annoyed when you kept - (inaudible 1:01:19.9) - well don't you think I'm happy because of this.
 So it might be okay to do that.
 And talking is where the action is.
 How quick is the transition from here to work?
 So you would rather be a little later?
 Well, that was one of the things I was going to say, what could you do to make yourself have some time to let things come and go, or.
 The ideal time would be what?
 Well, in past we were seeing each other on Tuesdays at  - 
 Okay, let me tell you. From noon to 1 on Tuesdays, I can do except for the first week of every month.
 Yeah. So you at 11:30 is ideal for you?
 Okay. Wednesdays - (inaudible) back to Thursday. I'm afraid this is it.
 Well anyway, let me - let me go through one more time.
Wait so noon - 11:30 was the best time. 
 Monday is out. Tuesday's out. Wednesday's out, and Friday's out.
 Okay. Museums, galleries? Well - (laughs.)
 Okay. Thank you very much. (Inaudible.) 
Thank you, I'll see you next week.
 Before I forget, I'm sorry, but I have to be out tomorrow afternoon.
 If I can reschedule I'll let you know. I probably can't give them ... the week is all screwed up because (inaudible 00:00:18).
 Gotcha.
 Okay.
 Sorry.
 Yes.
 Oh. 
 That's right, there were two people who left.
 Oh.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Was that you? Did you call?
 Okay. Is your area code, 101?
 Oh, okay, so that 's why I got confused. 
[00:01:25]
 Mm-hm.
 Oh.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
 So, that I would imagine is kind of reassuring because that's sort of similar to your frustration with him that he seemed so cross conscious that he was ...
 Yeah. And causing real problems with morale.
 Oh.
 I see.
 Good.
 Oh, no.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Sure.
 Why has your focus been so shy is it from pain?
 Do you know any bad reasons?
 Do you know since when?
 Hm. That's not good.
 This is not that?
 Is it usually ...
 Is it ... how unusual is it for you to make mistakes like the ones you made this morning at work?
 And what were they? There was the?
 Right.
[00:08:11]
(pause)
 I see.
 What was the meeting about?
 Right.
 The metaphor of dropping the ball keeps coming to my mind. 
 Um (pause). It doesn't feel like it has to do with sort of your subtly picking up on Mike's acting out.
 Mm-hm.
 It feels different when that happens?
 Mm-hm. 
 What else comes to mind about it? I mean just whatever pops into your head.
 No, I'm sorry, about the, do you feel does it bring anything to mind?
 Mm-hm. 
 Right.
 Yeah, the most conspicuous thing or the most obviously problematic thing is to me is your difficulty focusing and reading. I mean which doesn't really affect anybody but you. It doesn't sound tragic, it just sounds ...
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Sure.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
(pause)
 Mm-hm.
(pause) 
 Yeah.
 Yup. I mean, my sort of initial thought is either there's something you don't want to see ...
 Which is why I wondered about the acting out. Although I understand it actually feels kind of different.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. (pause) You might get homework at school.
 Mm-hm. 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
[00:17:21]
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 Progress with?
 Are you upset with me that you're not less depressed?
 Mm-hm. 
 And you seem more at a loss than usual I think. 
 I mean you're being (pause) is it the part to (inaudible 00:20:44)? Just upset? (pause) I know this brings up ... like (pause) being upset about it doesn't mean you did something wrong. 
 Or you weren't good enough at something. 
 Yeah. 
(pause) 
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 Right.
 Right.
 Not quite walking and chewing gum, but ...
 ... going in that direction. 
 (inaudible 00:23:27) how you pretty worn out.
 Most of the time.
 Mm-hm. Wow. 
[00:24:40]
 (Chuckle) 
 Yep.
 Sure.
 It's probably (pause) you hate sitting around, you hate being passive, you ...
 You pretty much have always pushed yourself pretty hard.
 You know if you slept all day yesterday that's not that you're lazy, it's because you were entirely wiped out. 
 Mm-hm.
[00:26:07]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. (pause) 
 I didn't know that.
 Wow, yeah.
 Mm-hm. 
 Mm-hm.
 But your life feels that way.
 Mm-hm.
[00:28:49]
 How ... do you know how that is?
 You know as much as you keep a pretty tight ... a pretty close eye on the debts I ...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And it just sucks not to have enough money.
 You mean in your situation?
 Yeah.
 Oh, absolutely. Yeah, no, I'm not (inaudible 00:33:01) out it's just, fuck. 
 Yeah.
[00:33:29]
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 I think there's some element of just being really exhausted and the difficulties focused and being out of kilter.
 Yeah, yeah. Maybe also much more than you kind of want to be or sometimes you want to know.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yes. 
[00:34:55]
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah. When you're really wiped out it's a long way.
 Don't cry.
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 Mm-hm.
 Sure.
 Yeah, sure whatever you like.
 Yeah, go ahead. Whatever it will be helpful.
 I'll see you next Tuesday. I'm (inaudible 00:37:52) tomorrow.
 Friday's good?
 Okay. 
 Gotcha. 
 That's been mysteriously shutting off occasionally, that's not good.
 Good.
 Good.
 It sounds like it was. (pause) You must be so scared.
(pause)
 There are ... I don't know yet what they are but there are very good reasons you've had such a hard time working and (pause) why you consistently can't get done what you need to get done. (pause)
 No I guess not. I don't think we really know what they are to tell you the truth.
 Yeah. I know it's stuff that's like within your capabilities to do. (pause) I think you sort of characteristically dismiss it as malingering.
 In a way that you tend to dismiss a lot about your emotional life especially when it's getting in the way of your doing the things you (pause) you should be doing.
 Have you ever got that close before? How recently?
 Mm-hm. What happened then?
(pause)
 Right.
(00:08:02)
 Right.
 Do you know what triggered it then?
 I don't have the impression at all that you want to be in the hospital. Do you want to be in the hospital?
(pause)
 How so?
 This kind of (pause) intense like self-hatred and self-criticism (pause) is an exceedingly painful significant, potentially deadly thing. (pause) When people kill themselves it's not unusual (pause) it's for reasons like this rather than because of other kinds of stresses you're talking about. (pause)
 So that means that this is just about weakness of character or is that the other alternative? (pause) Are we talking about weakness such as like laziness, obstinacy?
 Or the laziness particularly focused on work projects and particularly on projects you already think are kind of worthless?
(pause)
(00:14:30)
 I feel like my main point is (pause) people that are lazy are generally having a better time. You know, like you're sitting miserable, unable to get out of bed or miserable in your office playing mind sweep or trying to get yourself to work. Like if this were just laziness you'd be off seeing a movie. You'd be reading some book and enjoying it. You'd be like ... you'd be having a better time. You might feel bad about yourself, feel like you're lazy (pause) this would be more fun if you were just lazy.
(00:15:58) (pause) Does it seem otherwise to you?
 Here's an alternative.
 I'm not saying that I know that this is true.
 Maybe you're enormously sick and tired of doing stupid projects for people who in no way really seem to give a shit about you or who in any number of ways thrown you under the bus. (pause) Putting your time, energy, effort, and talent into doing things that are going to benefit them. (pause) And maybe you're curious about (pause) always being expected to do that for those sort of people. And there's some part of you, which is mostly unconscious which is just incredibly dug in around this, you know? The same way that a kid who like sits there and refuses to like get up and get out of the house to go somewhere they don't want to go can be. And (pause) maybe it's a lot more like that.
(00:19:07)
 Yeah.
(pause)
 I don't know if I would say only going to hurt you but it is certainly going to hurt you a lot more than it's going to hurt anybody else. I would certainly agree with that.
(pause)
 I think I'm pretty clear that you're like far angrier at yourself than at anybody else.
 I mean it absolutely seems that way to me as well. (pause)
 Oh really?
 No. No. (pause) I'm sort of feeling over the last couple of minutes like (pause) I'm (pause) probably haven't been (pause) I don't know how else to say this. I'm probably not speaking to the part of you that's (pause) most absorbed with what's happened.
 And I'm trying to think about how I might do that. (pause) Yeah, I mean I have a little bit feeling like I'm kind of missing the boat.
(00:23:01)
 Not your fault. (pause) I mean maybe that's really the most important thing here is like how terribly angry and disappointed you were with yourself ... I mean you're not today but like yesterday as you were (pause) deciding to end your life and (pause) I think you're also feeling sad and frightened by how far you were wanting to go.
 Those things seem closer to kind of what's going on and where you're at. Is that right?
 What are thinking about those things in particular?
(pause)
 I see.
 Feeling about like (pause) you feeling like you've been very unfair to me? (pause) And you're wishing you were stronger, in what way?
 I guess what you are feeling is mostly laziness?
 And so you wish you had more discipline?
 I can see you feel like those are lessons you at some important level haven't learned?
 That you're sort of (pause) you know if you know better at some level that you're kind of reacting like a obstinate, oppositional your own kid who doesn't want to do her own work or something. (pause) And so you're like well that kid and kind of fed up, exasperated parent?
 Who is really sick and tired of dealing with that kid.
 And I guess also the parent part probably feels helpless?
(pause)
 I mean that would be not being able to get (pause) yourself into gear?
 And (pause) can you identify at all what the other part? (pause)
 What are things like from that perspective? Like to me you talk mostly from the point of view of the parent part.
 Like (pause) "What's the matter with me? Why can't I do this?
 I'm lazy. I'm stubborn. I should know better. These are more the kinds of things the parent would say.
 But there's this other part that like doesn't want to do the work.
 Doesn't want any part of it. Wants to play games. Wants to shut down the efforts of other people around.
 Such is the parent part and this is your advisor. But you don't (pause) and we both know that's there I think. But you don't often speak from that point of view.
 Like I don't normally hear you say things like, "I don't want to talk to you about that."
 (chuckle) I want to make my advisor totally helpless to get anything out of me. (pause)
 (Laugh) I think I understand.
(00:33:58)
(pause)
 So here's a corny (pause) very psychologist thing to say.
 Which I actually happen, maybe just because I'm a psychologist and maybe it's true. The ones who get over it ... I mean first of all (pause) at least in my experience of talking to such freshman like (pause) whatever. My point really is the ones who have any easier time with it are the ones who were like also loved for being something else than their intellect through their lives. I don't know that you were.
(pause)
 I think it's kind of like the (inaudible_ 00:36:43).
(pause)
 Sure, sure, sorry. (pause) Yeah not having been like loved or cared about (pause) or something other than ... I think what you're telling me I like a promise of being great.
 Like I don't think it was for being smart.
(pause)
 What's upsetting you?
 I think the things you said were like get over it and you know that your parents sucked.
 Seems like (pause) those are both things that you are upset about but it sounds like at the moment it's more the former ...
 How sort of stuck you feel or aren't able to get over how your parents were in this way?
 Mm-hm.
 I can see how this complicates things that they weren't. I guess you can tell (pause) in a totally counterproductive way they thought they had your best interests at heart. Yeah.
(pause)
 I think the thing that you've made very clear to me and that perhaps I'm (pause) not making a clear sense of it is (pause) how exasperated you with yourself for not being able to get past this and then do differently and be reasonable. You know like, "Fine." All you got to do is ... I mean you could probably be working four hours a day on your thesis stuff and then go ride ponies the rest of the afternoon and things would be fine. Or if not fine ...
 Far better. Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 They're not that different from that. (Laughter)
(00:43:11)
(pause)
 I see. So (pause) on one side you're terribly angry and frustrated with how little work you're doing and on the other side you recognize or there's a probably I guess this is a third part really; recognizes that that's actually an often counterproductive.
 And like you kind of like want to say, "Okay. Hold off on that just so we can work and think and then like (pause) you know?" I'm sort of picturing that as like the family therapist, you know comes into the book? Okay. Stop being angry; say something nice to the kid. He'll do a little bit of his homework and then everybody wins.
 And that doesn't work either. (pause) Like you're so enraged about it that you can't even think of what it would be like to not be angry at yourself. You immediately turn around and hit yourself over the head.
 So it just like keeps going.
 Well (pause) I think there are some things that putting it like that leaves out. I mean I think I got the jest of what your thing is. I know about the (inaudible_ 00:46:48) you're afraid too. But (pause) maybe doesn't quite explain why the parent part is so harsh.
 And can't let up at all. And why ...
 And I think you just sort of took that in also.
 Mm-hm.
 It's incredibly fucked up. And it's also every bit as shortsighted as the way you're describing you are with yourself. I think I see what you mean when you talk about really taking that in and in that even if all they cared about was your winning the state, which is fucked up, like they would have done far better to let you play for some amount of time each day so that you would have the ... you would be happier and you have the kind of emotional resources to be able to devote to your studying.
(00:49:16)
 And that's what you kind of have trouble doing too with yourself now.
(pause)
 What was it?
 That must have been awful.
 Right.
 Oh.
 I see.
(00:52:23)
 You must have been constantly crushed by these things.
 You still are but, certainly were. (pause) We're going to have to stop in a couple of minutes. But I'm going to check on a few things. For our meeting tomorrow ...
 You think you'll be all right till tomorrow?
 Do you have any like interaction with your advisor? Sounds like that's ...
 When?
 Okay. All right. (pause) Anything else before we stop for now?
 Keep well.
 Sure.
 Okay.  Um -
 Are you saying it's very active?
 Yeah, they are.  There's some, well, there's an ongoing drama here I remember, that -
 Well, all right.
 But before you tell me the story -
 Let me -
 Let me make sure that the other things surfaced.  Um, we last met on [DATE].
 Um, and that point you, you saw him in [DEIDENTIFIED].  Your mood was okay.  Your energy was low.  Your appetite was good.  You were sleeping well.  Your self esteem was fine.  You weren't suicidal or hopeless or helpless.  Uh, you were concentrating, you were getting pleasure normally.  And we spent most of the time talking about this, um, bit of a drama -
 Over your husband -
 Your ex-boyfriend -
 And, and all of that.
 Okay.  And, uh -
 All right.  How have, well, tell me, tell me the short version.  Because I, I want to know what happened with, what, what has happened in that drama?
 Yeah.
 Just that drama.
 So this was today?
 And you haven't talked today?
 Okay.  All right.
 So that's where we stand.
 Well, but the fact that [NAME OTHER] knows nothing, and that it's at least still engaged, is, is reasonable success.
 That things didn't blow up, you didn't do anything rash or -
 You know, that you'll regret, or manic, or anything like that.
 You just kind of maintained this at a low simmer, and it's stupid -
 Okay.
 And if he responded to that?
 No, no, but then 4:00 AM -
 Okay.  How has your mood been?
 You don't know if you're happy, sad or mutual?  Usually?  I mean, you're allowed to be any mood.  But is it, what's the mood state underneath that is kind of the set one?  [PATIENT NAME], if something -
 Something sad happens you feel sad.
 Right.  And then you re-established a set point?
 When you stayed those ways?
 So your, your mood is let's say reactive at least, right?
 Okay.
 Um, are you sad a lot of the time?
 Are you anxious a lot of the time?
 Are you irritable a lot of the time?  Is your fuse short?
 Irritable.
 Anxious, anxious.
 Why does he make you anxious?
 Are you nervous about something specifically?  About getting caught, or -
 All right, so let's go through your plan.
 New Years Eve party in the city?
 In the [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Right.  But where are all of her friends?
 City friends?
 Everyone came out to the [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Wow, you're a nice mom.
 [LAUGHING].  Wow.
 Oh, my gosh.
 And you had to find a place for everyone to sleep?
 Where did they get all the booze?
 You did?
 Was this a gift to [NAME OTHER] or this was -
 Oh, really?
 And she, she had been staying in the city for the break?
 With you guys?
 All right.
 Was she happy, was she happy with the party?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, or -
 What did you do for me lately?
 Well, I'm impressed.  And kudos to you for doing that.
 She's a junior?
 She likes that dad cares, is on her case?  Or she's got to, because is this good or bad that you're not pressuring her?
 Is it pressure he's giving her?
 He wants her to go to medical school or he doesn't?
 Right.
 Which is not the best reason.
 But, you know.
 Uh, but it, but it's also a recognized professionally.
 And she's, and she's -
 Well -
 Does it fit her style?
 It doesn't?
 [LAUGHING].
 Well, well you hit, hit the third rail with something.  You, you hit a very sensitive spot.
 Maybe you didn't realize you were, but it sounds like you were.
 Well, and you didn't even know what, you know, uh -
 So this was your retaliation?
 Wait, wait, got to get away?  But you're, away were, like to -
 Florida or something.
 How could she not find, get the Tampax?
 So nothing, it wasn't even in there.  [LAUGHING].
 That's a great one.  That's funny.
 I, you know, how, how can you not find it there, though, you know?  It's not, I mean -
 Did you -
 All right.  All right.
 The level of drama is, uh -
 Yeah.
 You didn't know the kid, you knew the father?
 And he was depressed?
 Did he get hurt by the Madoff fraud?
 Because he probably runs in those circles.
 He does a lot of commercial real estate?
 Yeah.
 And does, does he own [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Yeah.
 So he's renegotiating leases, and -
 It is.
 He's involved in the day to day running of these things?
 How old is he?
 Man, everyone has lost 40 to 60% in the last year with, so I guess he's, if he takes a hit at 40% or so, he's just even with everyone else, who had it in mutual fund.
 But it's going to take a hit.  Everyone's is going to take a hit.
 Was it joints?
 The muscles or the joints?
 Well, was it knees and ankles and hip?
 Right.
 But did they -
 Did they, did they do the full neurologic evaluation?
 All right.  All right.
 Wh, why, why?  What's the reason for that?
 That you, all right.
 You -
 Your boot straps you wa, you -
 Right.
 Just -
 Huh.
 Good.  That's great.  That's, you know, people who get cognitive behavioral therapy, that's what they seek to achieve, what, what you just described.  I mean, it's nice that you're doing it kind of on your own without the therapy.  Therapy would help you with exactly that, with kind of reframing things cognitively, putting them where they belong, and -
 Where there's hope.
 Well, I, I just listened to you.
 Right.  Well, that, right.  Okay.  I mean, that's, that's the healthy thing -
 Psychologically.
 Yeah.
 Yep.  Especially someone with a mood disorder.
 Because if you stew in, in the juices too much, your mood disorder will kick in.
 And that, it'll, it'll hold you there.
 Uh, very nice.  Um, and your appetite's okay?
 Your sleep, now, how much, uh, steroid you taking, how much prednisone?
 When -
 Okay.  And did it help?  Can you tell the difference?  I mean 7.5 is not that much, but it's a 50% -
 It's 50% more, but it takes 24 hours for any change in steroids to do anything.
 Right.  So you're not taking, are you exercising at all?
 And what's your energy like in general?
 Um, did you use any Provigil?
 So I guess you felt like you didn't need it.
 And you're using the thyroid then, right?
 You take the thyroid every day?
 Um, any suicidal thinking?
 Do you feel hopeless or helpless?
 And how, how did things settle out with your husband?
 He did.  So -
 And you don't want to, you don't want to talk to him much it sounds like.
 That's, but that's a sensitive topic for you, for some reason.
 Right.
 Well, they're probably sluggish.  Because you can walk.
 That's right.  It's, it, denial is actually one of the healthiest defense mechanisms.
 It's, it's not that unhealthy.
 But physiologically, it's a little interesting why this is such a sensitive spot for you.  Almost like whatever you said to him that night that he, he blew up, is the stuff he gets you, not, this is how he unravels you.
 Is by saying that you've embraced the victim's role.
 And so that makes you nuts.
 Right.
 Wow.
 You got transfused?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Maybe.  I think it's your earlier, I, I think it's your early life father issues.
 Because your father's kind of a stiff-upper-lip, lip kind of guy and, and being too much woe is me victim, um, doesn't please him.  I think that's, uh, you know, there, there are many layers to things.  I think that, uh, that, that's to me a more obvious deeper layer than that one.  That, that's on there.  And, you know, and there are probably even deeper ones than that.
 But, uh, but your dad is that kind of person, right?  He doesn't, uh -
 And he doesn't gratify victims.
 He doesn't like people assuming the victim role, right?
 I think that's a stronger, that makes it more sensitive for you -
 Than, than, I, I think you are more affected by your father than by your husband.
 Right.
 Right.
 So anyway, it sounds like you have a charged phone conversation coming today?
 What do you think he wants to say?
 Yeah.
 I'm glad your daughter didn't see that e-mail.
 Um -
 Be more care, be careful.
 Right.
 I don't know.  I'm waiting.  I, I don't want to predict anything.  Uh, let's just, you know, come -
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  All right.  Take care of yourself.
 And I'll, I'll see you in a month, I'll see 1 or 2 months, whenever.
 Okay.
 That's all right.  Take care.
 See you.
 Thank you.
 You too.  Give my best.  I know everyone.
   So, what valuable thing are you still hoping to find in this pile?
   Umhmm.  Secret penis.  Or it's equivalent.  A talisman.
   So, what you seem to be saying, is that, if you weren't spending your time looking in these piles for a penis that isn't really there, and that you know won't be there, and that when you think about it, seems ridiculous, you could have been doing something else.  In between you were thinking, wondering, why you couldn't go up on the stage.  And what you say is, well, you wouldn't have anything to show.
   So, again, it sounds like the same theme.
   Well, I think the answer to that is clear.  Eh, it stops, and then your wish shows up in some new form.
   I had a hunch that maybe last week, there was another form, uh, this wish took.  Remember, you were having fantasies about ah, our meeting after we finish.  You'd be in the field, and I would become your teacher, and we would share this interest.  And I have a hunch that that's just another f, form of the same idea.  That well, I didn't give you a penis while you were here, and what you need, and so then, you know, maybe you can get it that way, afterwards.
   Yeah, and I think the way it makes you feel is that well, someday, somehow, you'll think of what it is and go to it, and there will be the magical thing that will make all the difference.  And that's the same idea.  If you persist, if you stick with it, if you just hold on, some day you'll find this penis.  Or its equivalent.  That will do the trick.  I think it's that feeling that makes it so hard to just dump this stuff.
   Yeah, again, so that you see the secret thing behind it must be that uhm, this woman, like FYSI, that what really confidence means, and self-assurance, really must only truly come about because somewhere hidden is their secret penis.  They've got one hidden somewhere.  If you just hang on to this, you know, maybe it will show up.  Maybe you'll find it.  I think it's the same idea.
   Even though, in other ways you know that that's not so.
   (Laughs) You mean, as if that's the only worthwhile thing in the world?  It's like there couldn't be anything left.  But you just mentioned some things.  There's books you want to read, there must be other things.
   Mm, well, I suspect that's the problem with a clean slate.  When you've got a clean slate, it's a void.
   Our time's up.
 Say what has been going on?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.  Yeah.  And now of course yknow, when you're with your friends versus with your family, the atmosphere is different and maybe, yknow, when you are with the family members one of the topic of discussion that you anticipate is talking about mom.
 No one opened up that topic.  There is a unique [INAUDIBLE] in your system to hear more and more about the good things about your mother.
 Okay.  And yknow, because the years that you have known her, she has been a model for you and now she's not there and since, yknow, in the parent's old age, you are the one who is staying with them, taking care of them, watching them everyday and all of the sudden yknow, she dies and uh, yknow.
 Yeah.  And yknow, when you go out, whether it is to your sister's or whether to any other relatives, yknow, brothers, things like that, and if you sit next to your dad, okay, you probably will feel the mother's void more than if you make your dad sit next to one of the grandchildren.
 And one of the big boys and have them yknow, chat with their grandfather and get some old stories out of him and you are mingling with somebody else.
 Yeah, know, that's what you have to have your nieces and nephews do is sit with the grandpa and yknow, talk some of those kinds of things while you are with uh, talking to somebody else, that way you have the part that is now kept occupied by somebody else in the family.
 Yknow, you'll feel let down and you'll feel an obligation that you have to sit next to him and keep him company.  
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 None of them talked about their girlfriends or things like that.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. Where is he going to school?
 Uh-huh, in [DEIDENTIFIED], okay.
 So that's, yknow, he wants to graduate.  Is that in uh, how many years has he been in college?
 Yeah, so in terms of, it's a four year thing, okay.
 Now, going back to, yknow, how often do you still think about your dead mother?
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  And now given what you have gone through, especially, yknow since -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, okay, well, yknow, maybe yknow, her birthday, remembering and that may help [INAUDIBLE] mind and all that.  With what you have gone through, yknow, emotionally and with all the care that you have given to her, at any time have you felt suicidal on, yknow?
 Yeah.  Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.  Yknow, it looks like at least it's not like the first one with a little bit more on the realistic things, and did not, yknow, you really want to go back to sleep and complete the rest of -
 Just keep up the good work.  Now as far as the medications are concerned, what's your thought on that as to what they are doing?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Any side effects from it?
 Seroquel?
 Um-hum.
 [INAUDIBLE].  
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 That's right, yes.
 Yeah.  Because it since it is originating from your computer, yknow, people will immediately figure out that you're sending it.
 And if there is some, you know, language there that is not acceptable -
 Then you will be -
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 He has to learn a little bit more about life in general and real things in life also.  Okay, now other than seeing the vision of your mother, have you had any other kind of hallucinations, like her talking to you or anyone else talking to you when they are not there?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, that was, was it soon after your mother died?
 You were not sleeping good at that time.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay, all right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay, all right. Okay, so yknow, I'm going to turn it off now.
 Okay?
 Thanks, again, for switching the time. (inaudible) I could have met at the (inaudible) regular time but (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
 And (inaudible) - is today our last week for a while?
 Okay.
 You'll be back.
 Okay.
 And - okay, I guess, it's (inaudible) - if anything comes up, and it would be helpful to talk (inaudible) while you're away, (inaudible) - and are you all set, medication-wise?
 Okay.
 Okay, great.
 Sure.
 [I don't know] (ph). I don't mean to bug you about it. I know it can be tough to coordinate that stuff. And I know [you've got] one (inaudible) but I haven't heard anything else and (inaudible) -
 Got you.
 Yes. Got you.
 Okay. (inaudible) you were saying you were flustered?
 Yes.
 Oh, my gosh.
 Right.
 Yes.
 Right. Okay.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 I see.
 I see.
 Is that a time when you, sometimes, look for things to make you feel better?
 Right.
 I wonder if it's, in part, a way of, kind of, running away from what's scary about the higher priority things. Like, getting in touch with school, I guess, would be the biggest one and, maybe, also - I don't know - getting other things done that you need to get done. [00:09:00]
 That you can, sort of, talk yourself into?
 Right. And you're doing something that, in its own right, is constructive.
 What depressed you last week? I guess, I assumed those were the things we were talking about. But, I guess, I didn't know exactly what you - [00:11:00]
 I see, yes.
 Yes.
 I have the impression that you get incredibly frustrated with yourself for not being able to work within the right constraints, whether they're deadlines or the right list of priorities or things like that; I guess those are the two main ones. But, I guess, (inaudible) is you're talking the way that, feeling out of control of those kinds of things, is maddening.
 It makes you really, very angry. [00:16:02]
 At yourself. And can - you can feel, I think, kind of helpless, when it comes to dealing with that.
 Sure.
 (inaudible)
 Yes.
 Have you been having anything going on, like the mechanism (ph) [or getting orders] (ph), or things like that?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Are there times you've felt that way in here? I don't know - to do with like responding to something I've said?
 Has that happened today?
 Do you have a (inaudible)?
 Yes. I wasn't aware of having critiqued the way you handled things.
 It, kind of, feels that way (inaudible)?
 I see. (pause [00:26:03] to 00:26:22) Yes, let me know if any of those come to mind. I'm aware of wondering things about what [did this or what did that] (ph) or what happened to your - and, really, wanting to understand what's going on. But, yes (ph) - the things that I missed or (inaudible), or whatever. But, yes - I'm not aware of having felt critical (inaudible) situation you've described. [00:27:04]
 Sure.
 (laughter) (inaudible)
 I could see that, I think. (laughter)
 I see. So, even, times where I've asked questions suggesting it might not have been immediately evident to me that you handled (ph) things in the only optimal way they could be handled. [00:28:06]
 (laughter) I see. All right, well, that's -
 Yes.
 Right. Yes.
(Crosstalk)
 I'm hearing some subconsciousness, clearly (inaudible) (laughter)
 It does, though, I guess - this sort of back and forth between those things, make me think of a - kind of a struggle, on your part, to be safe. [00:29:02] Like, wanting to think, on one hand, that there's only one way to have handled it, which is how you've handled it as opposed to - (inaudible) handle things in different ways, or whatever. And, then, a sense of - which I'm kind of hearing you saying, "All right, Sharon (ph) (ph), come on. Clearly, there would be other ways to think about X, Y or Z." I guess it makes me think of (inaudible) wanting to feel very safe and secure or above critique.
 Yes, I can see that in, sort of, being late for a deadline, in order to write something in an unobjectionably (ph) perfect way.
 Yes.
 Right.
 Sure. [00:32:01]
 Oh, good.
 I see.
 Yes, well, those seem to me like two different ulterior motives she could have had. [00:36:02] One would be to understand, because everything you said - why the deadlines were difficult to meet. And the other would be to have somebody being critical of you; I guess, either for that or, probably, trouble meeting deadlines, or something.
 Yes.
 (laughter) Is everything (inaudible) - sounds a little that way. But, maybe, even (inaudible) thing, that sounds like criticism, probably. (laughter)
 Maybe. (laughter)
 Right.
 I guess it depends what it feels as though their motives are.
 Yes.
 I was going to say, yes, it sounds like, mostly, you kind of want the rest of us out.
 And it, generally (ph), feels like we are being critical; I think, also, intrusive, with ulterior motives. [00:40:01]
 Sure.
 I see.
 Right.
 Right.
 I see.
 It would be nice to feel a part of it, in that way?
 Right.
 I (inaudible) that's part of the fantasy, in a way; is that you would have done something like that and it would have been nice to keep in touch or to hear from people that - it would be good to feel part of something in a way that felt good.
 But it [shouldn't have feeling] (ph) (inaudible) or like you don't want to deal with it.
 We're (ph) going to stop, for now.
 But have a wonderful month. I hope it goes really well and productively and all that.
 Sure.
 Thank you.
 Right.
 Okay.
 All right, that sounds good. We'll figure it all out.
 All right, take care.
 Easy enough.  That's for you.
 So, what's going on?
 We can do whatever we want.
 You need 60?
 That's a little.
 Yeah, it's a, it's a, it's, you know, somewhere between 60 and 120 or somewhere in that range -
 So there is room to go with it.
 Well, you know, it's, it's certainly a potential factor in what we're doing here is, you know, now you're going through nicotine withdrawal.
 Well, that's good, what's the mg strength on the patch?
 All right.
 Yeah, okay, how much were you smoking?
 Okay, so how much longer -
 Yeah.
 Yeah and then just stop.
 Is that right?
 You have asthma too or not?
 Um-hum.
 Are you on any medication for, like, you know, steroid medicine or anything -
 All right, good.  Well, um, so quit smoking, but also if you stayed sober.
 Which is really impressive, are you impressed with yourself?
 No really?
 Why?
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah , well -
 Can, can you use the same professor so you don't -
 Oh okay.
 Um-hum.
 So do they charge you for the course?
 Geez, you don't get a discount if you didn't do it?
 Well what does that mean?  What's an episode?
 Um-hum.
 That's usually not the best way -
 Yeah.
 Yeah, how long have you known this guy?
 Yeah.
 So police came?
 And?
 Okay.
 Yes, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, like what, like Flexeril?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You both sober?
 You're fighting over what?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 So one thing leads to the next and then -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 So what, so what did the police do?
 Yeah, are you on probation for anything?
 So they know your history from looking in the computer probably some -
 Yeah but you were sober at the time they came.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Flexeril, yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Ye, Yeah, I know -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Well, uh, it could be done but I need to be in the psychiatric ward and for that to uh, happen in a regular -
 Let's take a look at this, history here of all this stuff, I mean, you, we had you on lithium back in '07 -
 And then in '08 your, let's see, January, February so March of '08 so we go January of '07, so over a year goes by -
 So you stopped taking it because why?
 But you were, I mean, over a year without coming in -
 Yeah.
 Okay and then we get you on Abilify and that, and then we changed around some other meds and that was last summer.
 And then, and then the fall we restarted the Lamictal -
 Um-hum.
 Right, right.
 Yeah.
 Let's see what -
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, since the fall.
 Yeah.
 Generally it seems like it's enough to get the job done and then every once in a while you still have some issues that the Lamictal doesn't quite manage.
 But it always seems to be with this boyfriend.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Are you taking any hormone pills?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, sometimes estrogen can have an impact on Lamictal which case you would need more Lamictal -
 It would still work but you'd need more, so, so that's not a factor.  Manicky -
 Yeah, I hear you.  Do you feel like the Strattera adds to that or makes it better?  What I mean is makes that more likely to happen or less?
 The Strattera to make you racy and irritable or edgy or any of that stuff, manicky is -
 Okay.
 But do you feel that the Strattera helps you focus?  At school a little bit?
 Because potent, I mean in a way, Strattera sort of works like an anti, like a lot of the antidepressants, antianxiety drugs work.
 In a way -
 It's a ser, it's an norepinephrine chemical messenger so it could make this stuff worse, we're hoping it makes you more focused and calmer.
 Could, any, any of ADHD drug it's, it's like a activating, energizing -
 Potentially make you more irritable and racy, we're hoping it, it improves your focus.
 That's the goal, right?  I mean that's what we're trying to get out of this.
 Okay, nothing?  Well why, let's stop it.
 It probably doesn't do a whole lot.
 For sure, yeah.
 So if you're looking at medicines that provide some mood stability and you probably don't want to restart the lithium, right?
 We could bump up the Lamictal and we can also increase the Strattera but generally speaking, you know, if the manicky stuff continues -
 We're going to need to look at something other than Lamictal, I think.
 Not in place of -
 Probably but in addition to.
 Which I know isn't a lot fun to think about but -
 Yeah.
 Because it's really hard to beat lithium Lamictal, but we don't have to use lithium, of course, we can look at some other mood stabilizers that you haven't been on.
 What about, what about Topamax, you remember when you took that one?
 What are your thoughts on that?
 So we think, weight was the issue with lithium and then we had you on Paxil, we had you on Neurontin, we had you on Seroquel, you remember what happened on any of those?  Had you on Gabitril
 Yeah.
 Yep it can, certainly can do that.  And the, what is, you know other than cocaine, alcohol has been a problem as well.
 Right, any other drugs that were mainly big drugs of, of use?
 Great.
 That's excellent.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Vistaril and then Abilify, what was the deal with that?
 Okay.
 Um-hum right away.
 Right, right, right, yeah I get a lot of all of that.
 And the Campral you never took because it, it wasn't covered, right?
 Um-hum.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Nah, I mean, it's pretty expensive too, she didn't have any samples of it?
 Hm, okay, um, have you ever taken stimulant medicines like Ritalin?
 Concerta, um, none of that stuff.
 Okay and then you were also on Depakote and you took Trileptal, huh?
 Really.
 Trileptal -
 She's been trying multiple medicines including Trileptal.
 Hm, well what happened on that one?
 Um-hum.
 Probably yeah, that's a dose related side effect and then you were on Paxil.
 That's okay the number one side effect -
 Um-hum.
 On, on Paxil, I mean it's not for everybody but -
 For some people it's like a great medicine, whatever, it's not used a lot because of that.
 Which is unfortunate because for a few people it doesn't cause it and it works.
 So Lexapro, you remember that one?
 I like Lamictal, I think it is for you, I think it's done a great deal in, you know, since we've restarted it in the fall -
 So -
 Yeah,  I mean it's a good, it's a good drug for -
 I'm just, you know, uh, looking at this, is it going to be enough, I mean time will tell, there's, there's only so many different options that -
 Are out there, um, there's a handful of different atypicals that you haven't been on, those are the mood stabilizer antipsychotic things like Abilify and Seroquel.
 So Risperdal, Geodon, I like Geodon, you haven't been on that.  So, we got Risperdal, Geodon and Invega.
 They are all antipsychotic mood stabilizers.
 Zyprexa, you never taken that?
 That comes -
 It can cause some weight gain, so, so you haven't been out, so there's 4 right there.
 And then you think, you don't remember taking Trileptal.
 And that's a good option.
 And then BuSpar.
 Um-hum.  So, BuSpar's a possibility.
 It's a serotonin agent but uh, more for anxiety, yeah.
 All right, let's do this today, let's increase the Lamictal and uh, the Strattera just a little bit and we'll go from there.  So now we've got a nice history of a lot of this stuff.
 So we won't have to do this again.  Anxiety, again, should be managed -
 With, well, not only Lamictal but really the sero, the norepinephrine component of the uh, of the Strattera.
 It is off label, you know, but, but has been reported.
 I mean, did we talk about that?  Because -
 Um-hum.
 Before, you eat, before you take the medicine.
 Yeah, it could keep you up, I mean -
 It could keep you up, there's no doubt about it, I don't know if it comes in 80, let's see.  That would be nice if it came in an 80, then it would just be 1 pill, or I supposed you could take 2, 40s, I mean that would be a little different.  You know, then you could take it in the morning and at night.
 Let's give you an 80, there's an 80.
 Let's just do it and then, you know if you switch around though from morning to night, do it for a couple days just don't go back and forth.
 Yeah, if it's not helping.
 All right, so we're going to do this and then we're going to do Lamictal 150 mg pills 2 of them.
 And you should be taking that at night, right?
 Yeah, all right, we'll get this figured out.
 All right?
 Yeah, fine, you know, set it up up front, all right.
 And then uh, you know, we've gone through the history now of some options, so -
 We'll know where we're headed.  All right?
 Good luck, stay sober, that's impressive.
 Don't discount that, this is good news.
 All right.
 No more fighting with people.
 [INAUDIBLE].  Good to see you, take care.
 Thank you, you too.  All right, well that was a fun night.
NR: [INAUDIBLE].
 We're back to this as a clock. I think, I think it probably went by the end of the last week
 Morning.
 I guess?
 Yeah, this—it sort of sounds of a piece to me in that you seem to be more in touch more of the time when either ways you feel bad or things that are making you feel bad or even just kind of a sense that you feel bad. And you feel afraid that's going to get you in to trouble. [00:05:53]
 On Friday you mean?
 Wow. [00:09:03]
 Yes. The things you—you most want to be able to rely on are letting you down or aren't helping. [00:12:05]
 Like—I understand that this may continue for a while and that in a certain way, it's not such a novel thing. Let me be clear what I mean. It, of course, is an awful thing in that you're feeling awful. But it also seems to me like you're kind of less split off from it and you're more aware of how it's present and operating in your life. [00:14:35]
 And—though you just mentioned feeling guilty and, well, sort of guilty—you're also, you seem to be clear about how James without therapy or medications and what do and don't help, at least for now. Rather than having to see them as helping, but kind of knowing at moments otherwise. [00:16:23]
 Because it seems that way to you?
 What do you mean?
 Right. [00:20:41]
 The move itself?
 Do you feel like bad company? [00:25:46]
 At home or wherever else.
 I guess nothing except a whole lot of, you know, crummy, despondent and cranky.
 Absolutely. [00:29:06]
 And that's to be by yourself?
 What's in that set up? I mean by yourself, hurting yourself, not eating?
 Yeah. [00:31:37]
 Oh that's right. (inaudible at 00:32:57)
 Does it feel at all, like among other things, there's something hurtful to the people who care about you in the way you want to be spending you time?
 And—.
 I'm wondering also if there's an aspect, among others, of wanting to hurt them? [00:35:12]
 Yeah. [00:36:08]
 Huh?
 I imagine you're both scared for him and scared of the like guilt thoughts (ph).
 I mean, just want to address that very much, but in a way the human kind of person in that depression pretty much always involves some like anger and aggression or hurt the people one is closest to, but—.
 Like I said, you know, that doesn't help you much.
 I see. [00:38:51]
 I see you don't have much room to maneuver.
 Kind of because how you feel with him or even thinking about him.
 Like those (inaudible at 00:42:18) too?
 Well, we should finish up now.
 Okay, so with that we just set that there and ignore it.
 Actually you can, you can do that.
 Oh.
 [DEIDENTIFIED]
 You mentioned the last time you were here about that film.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Is she - has she called?  Has she looked for him?
 Is there someone that's going to be able to fix it?
 At this point there's hope.
 Oh.
 Um, yeah.
 Good.
 And when's that?
 Right.
 Good.
 Although, just a moment ago you were explaining how you're helping [NAME OTHER] explore -
 Like, what do you feel you're behind with - other stuff.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 I mean you do still do a lot [INAUDIBLE].
 [PATIENT NAME], did [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] suggest anything different, or is he gonna plan a knee surgery or is [INAUDIBLE].
 With a morphine pump?
 What's the other, [INAUDIBLE] simulator?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Epidural?
 [INAUDIBLE]?
 So what's the procedure he's - 
 So it's like a fusion or a -
 Um-hum.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah, changing the way you're thinking and realizing that, yeah, you've been through all these, you aren't the same as you were ten years ago.  You've been through these surgeries, you've been through the difficulty with the, your hips and the apparatus, and this and that.
 You've been through quite a bit that it would affect how you're able to do what you're used to being able to do but not being able to do some of those things doesn't mean that you aren't able to do a lot of other things.
 Um-hum.
 The quiet -
 Oh.
 But there's nothing else you could do to get you out.
 Well if you're working on your reunion, what does that mean?
 But are you working with the committee or working with the people that are planning it?
 Is there something that you can do to put your mind on that and help with it?
 You'd be good at planning.
 You'd be good at like, you know, doing - that doesn't mean, planning doesn't mean you actually have to do things.  You know, working with the people, figuring out the course of the evening or the catering or whatever would make it special.
 Great.  Okay.
 So that just involved typing and driving places and then typing the letter, right?
 I mean you were helping and using your mind.
 Which is good.  Maybe you're able to do those things and things like that versus -
 Doing a lot of the physical things.
 Uh-huh.
 And there's nothing else to get your mind off of it.
 Uh-huh.
 I think when you unload and there is nothing going on, that's all you're left with.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, but I think that, you know, when you're depressed and you're focusing on the pain, you're not going to concentrate -
 You're not going to concentrate as well too so, you know, you may remember certain things and maybe not remember others at certain times.
 Um-hum.
 Is it raining outside too?
 What does that mean?
 Functioning properly though, if you have issues with your back it's going to be different.  What is functioning properly with the x-rays and the physical findings of your back?
 Right but how, and when you have one, how will you adapt to it?  What are those changing expectations and when you say functioning properly, it's a very gray area.
 What's properly?
 But it's not for nothing.  If you start crying, there's a reason.  There is a reason.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.  I know what you're saying but part of that, what you think you should be and could be are things that you can control and things you can't and that if you could control the pain and the issues with your back, you would have already.
 That's where a lot of your anger comes up and I would imagine the thought was there and present and it cannot at this moment be changed. 
 Good.
 Well you're going to [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] for the pain, he's your pain management doctor right?
 Right, but that in terms of new int - he prescribes it but new interventions and changes -
 In terms of the pain medication are being [INAUDIBLE] [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 Okay, and you have an appointment with him and he is working with you for other interventions for the pain, right?
 Okay.
 Okay, did he make any other suggestions for things you could do between now and September?
 Okay.  You don't think a TENS unit would help or?
 Right.  In the last, since the shots?
 Well, yeah, but that's part of is just being able to feel secure with what's being done for your back.  And how your back is now.
 Yeah.
 But it's not until October?
 If - yeah.  And he's not suggesting it right now?
 So it's still up in the air?
 Yes.  That's the issue that we talked about before where if you have one step in front of you, you're five steps ahead already.  But, okay, the appointment - keep up [INAUDIBLE] the appointment, it's not until September.  He hasn't suggested the surgery.  He said he's going to look into it but he's obviously not doing that now.  I'm sure that when you go back, they'll have ideas about [INAUDIBLE].
 He didn't know what he would do though.
 Didn't know what kind.  He didn't know - usually if he's going to sit there and talk to you about surgery, he's going to say we need to do this procedure and you sign a consent form with the specific procedure put in the consent form.  You're not to that point yet, you didn't sign the consent form for that specific type of intervention.
 Has it even been determined?
 You're already under the knife.  That's what it is.
 You've done that before where you've had one level of stress and you've been 5 steps -
 Down the road already in the most negative way.
 Yeah, but you know, he's an adult.  It sounds like he will come up with answers as well.
 Right.  But you're -
 Don't try to take the responsibility away from him of coming up with a solution.  He always seems to come up with the right answers.  They're a two income household too, right?
 And your daughter in law makes -
 They're both resourceful.
 And they're -
 And they're young and have careers and they've got lessons to learn but they also have a lot of gifts.  They have resources that are theirs.  You know what I'm saying.
 Yeah, they should be able to come up with an answer for themselves.  They've always been pretty independent, your son has, more so than your daughter, right?
 So again, before you worry about him, give him credit for what you know about him already, you know what I mean?
 But you know that he's a, he's been independent and able to make good decisions.  Decisions that are right for him.
 You and your husband both are not ready yet.
 Where do you feel shut out?
 Well I think, you know, they're responsible for their reactions.  You're giving them advice and making statements for telling it like it is as you observe it.  
 You know, if you're worried about their reaction, you know, then you have to kind of look -
 There you go.
 There you go.  Yeah, I kind of figured that's how you handled it.
 You know, you're going to say what you're feeling because that in terms of your responsibility of whether he acts on it, yknow, follows the advice, doesn't follow the advice, whatever, that's on him.
 You can take heed at least or credit that you said what you were feeling and you didn't hold back but what they do with your words is up to them.  You're not responsible for how they listen or don't listen, do you know what I'm saying?
 But the fact that you were able to speak up is, I can't imagine you not, if you know what I mean.
 Because, you know, you do, you don't hold back, that's good.  You know, if there's something there and you've been thinking about it, maybe in some circumstances where you find yourself in the position I told you so.  But sometimes, I imagine, you know -
 Okay.
 But, how many kids -
 At varying ages haven't said that one or the other or both parents have been mean.
 Dad's mean because he didn't give me a new baseball, whatever, whatever the complaint is.
 Yeah, okay.  You have to have some worry in your life. 
 Then you can let it go.
 I mean, obviously, it might not be a bad thing if it's a family business for you to know some of the details.  You know -
 Yeah, but I guess it's you and your husband's livelihood and you get involved in - because God forbid if something were to happen to your husband.
 Right.  It's more like just knowing who, the staff and knowing roughly where things are would be important for you to know.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Do you need prescriptions today?
 You sure?
 All we need to do is set up another visit, huh?
 Thank you for this.  Let me turn this off. 
 Well I - I
 Well I share the space with another intern. And we just moved into the office a week ago. So. And I'm going to decorate it but.
 No. The pictures were - the pictures were here. The calendar - this calendar was here so.
 You brought a lamp in.
 Other than that it's pretty much.
 I'm okay. How are you doing?
 Just tired?
 Before it's too late?
 Have you been feeling that way a lot recently? Do you want to step away because you're like trying to?
 Well we certainly talk a lot about figuring things out and let's within a central theme. And the - what's bringing you to the discouragement?
 Which - what?
 Okay.
 Not settling.
 How so? [2:08]
 Now it's interesting because you started off saying all of these nice things. You said (inaudible).
 Sounds like you've got some ideas. Sounds like you've thought about it a little bit.
 What was your sense of this guy? Do you think that it was more that he was available or that he was being pushy?
 So you told him you were anxious with him?
 And how - in what way was he being pushy?
 Sounds like you didn't buy it.
 You think that might be related to the fact that he kissed you?
 It sounds like you might not always be okay to trust beyond the panic related to guys.
 You mentioned that last time. We talked that a lot of people were getting married and I think that for some reason you've been having a trial (inaudible).
 Is she the one that who lived with you and left you that note? Is that Jodie I think?
 Yeah, I remember the note. Yeah.
 It sounds like you feel like Jodie figured it out. Or aren't you sure?
 Okay.
 Sounds like she has a lot of the things you want. [6:58]
 I'm thinking now so you've talked a lot about wanting to have a variety of living places in your future. Not I think that something that's come up a lot is the worry - I don't know if worry may be too strong but the sort of feeling of a little bit of apprehension about being nailed down to one job or one place. You think that kind of feels a little claustrophobic to you when you think about it.
 The idea of wanting something committed and at the same time wanting to have your choices open. Does that sound right?
 Tired of thinking about it, kind of struggling with it or just tired, tired.
 What do you think would let you?
 That's the big question. So you feel like right now we're just sort of rehashing?
 It feels like we're not making progress right now?
 Well we had talked about things in a little bit different way last time we met. Do you remember what we talked about?
 Yeah. It's kind of hard to keep in mind. [9:10]
 We started talking a little bit about your dad in the beginning of the session. And we also started - we were talking though about - you had mentioned about giving yourself permission to be physical or (inaudible).
 So what happened?
 Or even before?
 Before he called you.
 I guess it depends whether you want him to or not.
 What is it?
 What does nice mean to you?
 Say that.
 Because he just treats - you shouldn't.
 Sounds like we've got him figured out pretty good.
 Okay. There are a couple things that I got just in what you just told me that I.
 You have mice?
 Okay. [14:32]
 A little fragile?
 Okay. Well let me start there then.
 Because it seems like one of the things is you came and you were kind of hopefully. And I kind of disappointed you. I was going back over the same stuff or just reflecting what you were saying.
 Okay. So I wondering what you were feeling when - I guess now we're sort of going back to it which is kind of a like maybe I should have asked you this right there and then.
 It was frustrating because I wasn't - I wasn't doing what? What was it that - in what way was I frustrating you?
 Well I don't - I mean today. Just now how is it - was it different? Was it the same stuff that was going on before or?
 Okay. And it - to some extent what you want when you want to get to the heart is you want me to be more active.
 Okay. I guess - I guess what I'm wondering is what - it seems like part of that you know was something that I was saying - was letting us stay at the surface level.
 Okay. I'm wondering also I guess the reason I'm bringing this up is because we had talked about some of the stuff a couple weeks - two weeks ago when you were here. And I'm wondering if it was - if there was something that you really wanted me to take it to that level. If you felt like it was difficult for you to bring some of this stuff up yourself. [16:54]
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah. And - and I think if I understand you one of the things you're saying is.
 Attended (ph) what I was.
 What I say. It's like I can't - you're saying I can't get to the next level on my own. Don't let me stay there.
 Okay. I - I think a lot of the.
 I'm not sure I would put it that way. But I think it sounds like what you're saying is you'd like me to be more active. I'm trying to see if I can get you to say what you'd really like from me directly because.
 Okay.
 What are you feeling having this conversation?
 So some of those frustrated feelings are coming back that we're having this conversation again. And it doesn't seem to be getting anywhere. Now when I reminded you of what we talked about two weeks ago, did that - that felt better?
 Okay.
 Well we've talked about a number of things. And - and.
 Well I think that we've talked about a number of patterns that show up. And have shown up to throughout - throughout the - this is session 27. We're going to see each other tonight and three more times.
 We've talked about a number of patterns that have come up. But it seems that one of the big things that's happened is sort of you're satisfaction with the - this process has sort of ebbed and flowed. Then sometimes you feel very satisfied - sometimes you feel really frustrated. And I think it's useful to explore that - to talk about what it is that's satisfying or dissatisfying to you. But I also get the sense that when I bring this stuff up you can really frustrated with that like why do we have to talk about this. Does that - does that sound right?
 Why we have to?
 Do you feel - do you - is your perception that you're frustrated all of the time or that there are moments that are much more frustrating to you?
 Well one of the things that we - that this process does do is to talk more about sort of when we get stuck. When something happens between the two of us they get stuck because the idea is that it's probably similar in some ways to when you get stuck outside of this avenue. [21:36]
 Just in here.
 I don't get when you said boundaries and behavior. Can you tell me about that?
 That sounds like.
 Okay. Let me ask you a question. It sounds like that right there is something that you thought about and is something that's troubling you.
 It - It can be a very confusing process. Therapy can be very confusing.
 Those are things we've talked about a lot.
 Right and you might not get any complete - I mean those are big issues. In three sessions that's a lot to ask for resolution of any of them.
 Gotten the tiniest bit.
 Well let me let me kind of.
 Because I can see you're like really frustrated. And I can understand - I understand the source of a little bit of that I think. But I'm wondering what you just said about boundaries for example. And what some people are comfortable with and what other people are comfortable. It sounds like something that you read or thought about. And you're like well why is this an issue for me? And I'm wondering if it would be - if the something that would make it difficult for you to come in and say look this is bothering me. This is troubling me. This is confusing me. I mean be able to talk about that.
 So a week ago or two weeks ago we were talking much more like on that level. Right? So that we were talking about who makes decisions or who - how you give yourself permission to be with somebody or not be with somebody. And was that a more satisfying experience for you?
 Okay. Now I feel like we're kind of stuck so I want to sort of step away from this a little bit and see if we can maybe get a little unstuck.
 Although I think it's - I think it's important to sometimes to look at. It's seems like we're - one of the things we're having is a negotiation problem about who's going to be in control of what we talk about. And it sounds like you think that.
 Right. I understand that.
 You're asking - you're asking for help from me. That's the basic purpose of coming here.
 But it sounds like you're feeling like you want me to sort of be a little bit more of a direct guide. And when I have been, that's been more helpful and useful to you. And when I haven't been, that's been when it's really frustrating and. [26:20]
 Okay. Now to sort of step away from this just for a few minutes and. When you were talking about - we were talking last time about this whole idea of you - what a guy had to do so you could give yourself permission to want to be with him. And then you said you left and you went and you tried something different. And immediately your feelings shifted. All right? So that even between calling him and saying come over and him getting there, you were beginning to.
 Okay. So - so you say you're with him. And you called him up and he came over. And since we had been talking this may be one of the places we're having difficulty or that I'm having difficulty is that you said you called him up and he came over. And we had been talking very clearly sort of about a sexual relationship that you were having with him. But it was unclear from your description whether that was what happened or whether you just spent some time with him or?
 Was it - was it - is there a reason that that's - is it uncomfortable to talk about that directly? To talk about sex or.
 It is uncomfortable to talk about it.
 Okay. Maybe we can talk about that. Why is it uncomfortable?
 Really? Could you explore that a little bit?
 What is it that's hard about talking about - about sex?
 Right.
 Okay. What would make it hard to talk about sex with me?
 You've talked about that feeling of not feeling safe before. And you said that you felt like I again that you use the word microscopic like I was saying (inaudible).
 And some days we don't. And today you're really feeling like I'm being scientific or removed or.
 Okay. But something's going on here that you're feeling not safe - not safe to talk about sex. Not safe to feel vulnerable and.
 If you're aware of what I'm doing to contribute to that?
 So it isn't so difficult.
 And this - this possibility that that by itself is contributing too. The idea of breaking through the other layers is kind of a scary one. But I'm wondering.
 It would be a relief to break through. But something about the way I presenting myself today - about how we're directing is making hard for you to feel safe. Can you think of (inaudible) like that?
 If you could think about it, do you think you'd be comfortable telling me?
 You wouldn't be comfortable telling me.
 What do you think looking in your imaginary action would be like?
 My feelings would be hurt.
 So you're protecting?
 Because you think - you think I couldn't - not going to be able to take it?
 And have a?
 You protect people. And you're doing that for me. Even though part of what you're feeling is that I'm being cold and distant. Can you tell me what's going on right now?
 How is it making you feel?
 With? Do you feel like you're doing that now? You're burdening me with you.
 What would it be like to just tell me?
 Okay.
 Do you mention it though?
 You imagine that I'm wounded.
 But I'm not. So some of the - one of the things that happens is when you're feeling really like I'm being incompetent or I'm not helping. It is - is you get more indirect about expressing your feeling. You kind of step around that.
 You are (inaudible).
 And when we finally got around to what the heart of the matter is so.
 What would it be like to just share that as your experience? That that's just.
 Yeah. I you know this isn't helping. I don't feel good by what's going on. What would you imagine would happen between us if you were to just tell me that? What do you think - how do you - let's say I was hurt. Well how do you think I would react or respond?
 Okay. So let's say I did. How - what do you think I would - do you think I would get more distant or do you think I would - it would affect the work somehow or it would affect my relationship with you? Because. [35:20]
 Okay.
 So you wouldn't want me to feel that way about you?
 You'd want me to think you're nice? So if I were to be hurt and think you're mean, then I would not - I would not like you. I would pull away from you. I would - can you help me out?
 Which is partially how you feel like I am even when you are nice. Sometimes you feel like I'm really distant and that just scientific. And I take out my microscope and I'm very. I mean you really - you really get this.
 That's true. But I remember one of the things that we talked about recently about when you got the urge to go through men is that if you pursue they'll run away. And what I'm hearing you saying today is that if you expose yourself, people are going to get distant. Either by saying I love you or by saying I hate you. That doesn't give you a lot of choices.
 What do you do with those hurt feelings? [37:38]
 So.
 Can you imagine saying to her I'm feeling really hurt or I'm feeling like you're pulling away from me?
 That's fine.
 I think - I think what you're telling me about your relationship with her it's important. I mean but I'm also aware that it's probably easier to talk about your relationship with her than to talk about sort of how you're feeling about.
 To get shut down or disappointed?
 I think different people have different responses. And I think that's what's important about us talking about this is to find out what your response is. And how that works for you.
 And it sounds like even here where I'm supposed to be the person you can be honest to, you often feel like you can't. You can't talk about certainly your disappointment with me. And it sounds like there are also subjects that are uncomfortable to talk about like sex. But that's I mean which - in some ways, I.
 I'm wondering since you feel like you don't know that much about me and certainly my notions or my sexuality or whatever. Does that make it - are you worried that if you say something I might be offended? It's similar that if you expose your feelings like I'm like oh my God, how could you know?
 It might not be similar enough in my thinking about it to be able to understand.
 It sounds like they all have things to offer you.
 They can all relate to you in some way.
 But it sounds like you're worried that.
 So is one of the things that makes it unsafe to talk to me is you don't know what you're going to get back?
 (Inaudible).
 Right.
 Good. That's (inaudible). And certainly it's understandable that you would be very curious about - about that with me. It could be seen as freeing not knowing. Then in some ways it doesn't matter what I am.
 That you could take advantage of the fact that you don't know. But I think it's important to - I think the real important thing is you're saying - I mean that's one possibility. Some people might feel that way. You're saying you don't feel that way.
 But.
 So.
 So it sounds like there's something about this therapy. It's different from the therapies you've had, about my opening up that's bothering you. And I'm wondering if it would be possible if you can just say what it is that's really bothering you.
 No?
 So what you're saying is personally you don't feel safe because I haven't exposed myself at all to you.
 Which is. Which would.
 Right. [45:16]
 Okay. It's - I think there are two ways of looking at that. One's agreeable and trying to make the best of the situation and whatever.
 I think it - I think it's.
 But I think maybe that would be something that would be worth our talking about. But then maybe part of what happens is that sometimes you're trying to accommodate yourself so much to me that we miss important areas and end up sticking on a different level. Getting stuck. And maybe that's where those dissatisfaction moments come from.
 We're actually just about out of time. But I'm wondering if in just the last couple of minutes we have if - we've talked - I've noticing that even in - even in the conversation we're having today which it seems to be more direct than we've been before about a lot of these things, I still feel like we're dancing around. Not maybe - what you know like in a big circle dance but we're.
 We're still not quite - there's still some things that are not quite comfortable just saying to me. Does that sound right to you? And you don't have to say anything you don't want to.
 But I just want to make sure I understand because we're - we're - something we're getting closer to something. But there's still - there's still some.
 Something that we're not quite getting to.
 I think we have an issue right now.
 But I still think we're moving around it.
 But there's something. It's.
 I think we can at least say it was something to keep you safe. And it certainly seems like it's something to keep you safe in here.
 And you're looking for reassurance in knowing more about me and maybe understanding me a little bit better to know what's it okay to talk about and what's not. And just before we stop I guess I have one question - one more question for you, which is, how has it been talking really about what's going on?
 This. Yeah.
 It's also hard to get to sometimes.
 And sometimes the other dance has to happen first.
 Did it - did it seem like that was what I was trying to get to you before? (Inaudible).
 That's what makes it.
 But that's what I'm thinking. That sounds like a great idea but it sounds like exactly what you have trouble doing. To say oh God Pat you're so incompetent today. Why the hell are we talking about the same thing the seventy-fifth time? I feel like you're an idiot. You know? And that would be really difficult you know it sounds like. And I think we've gotten closer to something. And we'll see if we can - it's kind of hard to bring up artificially when you're not feeling it.
 To say why would you feel if you are unhappy with me today?
 So we'll just have to catch it when it happens.
 We'll have to see if we can look at that.
 What it's like to be direct. But we do have to stop. We're quite over time.
 Okay. So I will see you next week. I'm wondering - I can get that.
 I'm wondering if next week if it would be possible to actually come a little bit earlier.
 Would - how's 6 o'clock?
 Will that be okay?
 I have a new number for you.
 Okay. It's ***.
 **.
 **.
 That's this direct number.
 And that's my voice mail so I will definitely get the message.
 So you can just call and leave me a message.
 And if for some reason you need to get you and me're just getting the voice mail and you need to page me or something, you can call the front desk, which is Blanca's (ph) number, which is ***-.
 Right.
 .
 Oh. Let me give you a (inaudible) and an envelope.
 You can put the check right in the envelope.
 Yeah. The temperature in this office goes from 30 hot to 30 cold (inaudible).
 This is session 27.
 So we have three more.
 Okay.
 Yes. Good to see you.
 See you next week.
 Bye-bye. Are you okay?
 Alright.
 Bye-bye.
  That feels very real to you about MSCZ, doesn't it?  And this fear that you just described.  Y_ you say it's irrational, but—.
  That's a very good description of the way you've really sounded here all week.  As though you, well, the way you—, the way you approach coming here and, uh, today even coming late and, uh.  So it all has to sound to me as though you're feeling, well you feel miserable and you feel kind of like that you're worried about, uh, all the things you mentioned, but there's nothing you can do about it.  There's—, you don't, uhm, sound as though you come to me to help you work it out or understand it.  It's much more the feeling you just described, as though, "Well, this is the way it is," and you're stuck with it.  (pause)
And it also occurs to me that that's almost the spirit in which you have talked about the whole idea of being pregnant, or even getting pregnant.  Uh, as though it just kind of happened to you, and you had nothing to do with it, and there was nothing you can do.  Same quality.
  But it seems to me, even maybe more central is the whole conviction, perhaps born of, uh, the fact that you've been reacting to me very much the way you did to your father and feeling the same kinds of feelings, attributing to me the same feelings that you did to him.  In some ways treating me the way your mother treated him, and the way you did.  And so really it was just going to happen the same way all over again.
  That if you really turn to me, you'll end up as disappointed as you were before.  So you fight it off, in much the way you fought before, and with the same sense of nothing can be done.  (2-minute silence)
  Uhm, I will be out of town next Thursday and Friday, so I have to cancel those 2 hours.
  Our time's up.
 Session 14. November 30th. Oh, that sounds amazing. We've got another friend who's going to Chile for Christmas and is going to sleep in the jungle and is going down some river.
 And, just by himself. It sounded like a long — for a two week thing.
 Leaving his wife and child up here around (inaudible at 0:00:23.8)
 What is the season?
 Oh. You're just a little bit before. Yeah. (inaudible at 0:00:50.1)
 Picked up your spirits?
 Great.
 Oh.
 Oh. Wow.
 No (inaudible at 0:03:45.0)
 Well —
 It wasn't that bad.
 Well no, I mean you cancelled a lot of times. And you've always been good about letting me know. I don't mind your canceling. If I know —
 Ahead of time so that I can plan my life accordingly. But it pisses me off to sit here and look at the four walls (inaudible at 0:04:38.5)
 Yeah. I can (inaudible at 0:04:45.1)
(Overlapping conversation)
 I've done it too.
 All you did was have a good time. You're just enjoying (inaudible at 0:04:58.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
 (inaudible at 0:04:59.8)
 Oh. Well that's hear them.
 (inaudible at 0:05:09.9)
 That's really good.
 Oh. Wow.
 Yeah.
 Goody two shoes with (inaudible at 0:06:08.8)
(Overlapping conversation)
 Oh.
 So what a pair you would make.
 (inaudible at 0:06:22.8) that and —
 Did you have a good time?
 (inaudible at 0:06:59.6) so bad? [0:07:00.2]
 (inaudible at 0:07:56.8)
 Wow.
 Do you feel comical about it? [0:10:05.0]
 It was the typical (inaudible at 0:10:36.0)
(Overlapping conversation)
 How about right now?
 Can you — was that an example?
 Um-hmm.
 Gee. It sure didn't sound childish to me.
 It sounded really like you were really excited and flamboyant in what you were into. That didn't strike me as childish.
 It just struck me as excited and interest — that you were interesting to listen to.
 Feel like pass it off and push it under the rug.
 Yeah. (inaudible at 0:15:00.9)
 It sounds like it would really be hard to lose yourself and enjoy what you're saying.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I think that's a projection in some sense that that's not true. You're not so strange. Really. You're really pretty on the level. And —
 I think it would be exciting for you to be able to share your excitement with people.
 I don't think that you're going to expose yourself.
 Yeah. Yeah. That's (inaudible at 0:16:15.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
 You look at him (inaudible at 0:17:31.9)
(Overlapping conversation)
 Yeah. You realized my God; he doesn't have to go through that. Why -?
 I was advertising that I didn't have a good self image.
 By doing so.
 Oh. (inaudible at 0:18:06.2)
 What did you (inaudible at 0:18:18.7)
 (inaudible at 0:19:37.8) That's just a bunch of hog wash. And you were just getting yourself in further with that kind of —
 Oh. Not at all. It's just — well that's (inaudible at 0:19:49.7) kind of principals that I've been dealing with here in terms of — be honest about it. No. Look, that's a drag and I don't have time to do it. And, do your own drags.
 Carry on (inaudible at 0:20:05.0)
 (inaudible at 0:20:08.2) gee, I'd like to do that for you. (inaudible at 0:20:11.4) do that for (inaudible at 0:20:13.0) wait tables for him.
 It's a big technique though.
 That's a big thing. Because if you say, gee, I'd love to do that for you; that's degrading to you too.
 Isn't it? When you don't want to.
 (inaudible at 0:22:23.5)
 No. I have read about 20 pages but not (inaudible at 0:22:55.3)
 Yep.
 Not only battle but all kinds of things. Loving things, helping things —
 Whatever. I mean like some time in an hour I'll feel like a client has put together a need of energy or (inaudible at 0:24:22.7) And I'll send them energy. And I've had clients turn around and look at me and say I don't know what you did but it worked.
 Well just send them energy. Just the way you're sending a psychic —
(Overlapping conversation)
 Psychic (inaudible at 0:24:35.6) I mean you just do it. And you can just do it too. It's not a matter of you have know to bend this finger this way and get it all lined up. You'd be surprised what you can just do.
 Oh. Come on. Oh. I hate that when you do that.
 Well let me ask you one question. Do you have any particular goals for tonight? The last — what have we got — 20 minutes?
 Okay. And you want (inaudible at 0:25:38.2)
 Okay. I just want to check and make sure you were doing what you want to do.
 (inaudible at 0:27:36.5) your dad.
 (inaudible at 0:27:47.0)
 A total bore.
 Made you feel like zilch — zero where you would have turned up the flame and —
 Let the person at least enjoy themselves whether you were bored or not.
 So what are you going to do about it?
 That's a great realization. I mean that's coming a long way. I was just realizing myself slipping over that and saying yeah, what next? Well I — that's the bad habit I've got. I want to acknowledge that that's a lot to realize.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Now you know I don't agree with just being more aggressive (inaudible at 0:30:49.8)
 Don't agree with that at all. I — what I'd do, believe it's the more honest routine. And that's what I was saying about that guy in the office. Like hey, would you call this and you're saying no, I don't have time to do that. That's your footwork (inaudible at 0:31:11.2) And that can be said in a nice way instead of just —
 What I just said. That's the kind of thing that I want (inaudible at 0:31:22.1) that I think would be a healthier way for you to handle the situation.
 Expect what kind of behavior?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Okay. Well first of all, one, you don't have to meet their expectations. Just as they expect you to be more and expect you to be self degrading and whatever these things are, you don't have to do that. I mean you can just be yourself and be — and I know that would be probably a hell of a lot more interesting both to you and them if you tell your story animatedly. Well okay, there's an example where it probably didn't work that way too is with that guy. Well if that was his reaction, fine. There are other people in the world. And also it sounded to me like what happened there was his was the social thing of oh, what about Jamaica? And it was the social thing to at least mention Jamaica. And, he wanted to acknowledge that you went to Jamaica. Where it would have probably been much more appropriate to talk about the details of it when he get there rather than over the phone. [0:32:58.3]
 You don't think so. Why? What -?
 What don't you think?
 Okay.
 (inaudible at 0:33:19.9) that was just my guess from the other side.
 Okay.
 Okay. That's been true up till now. But, you've taken one step beyond that in realizing that that's what the role is and not liking the role. And saying it's emotional wasteland for you. That's quite a recognition. Yeah. I don't (inaudible at 0:34:30.0)
 Well is that what you're saying? Is that what you're saying?
 Well it doesn't have to be. Well it doesn't have to be that though. Oh.
 Well —
 (inaudible at 0:35:13.8)
 Look, I think people change that are —
 Whatever their basic patterns are a tremendous amount. And I don't believe that bullshit that because that's your established pattern that that means the way you're going to go on forever. If you really believe that, I don't know what you'd be doing here. You're here to change things. I certainly think you think change is possible.
 I certainly do.
 Well why not —
 You could even skip the — (laughs) I was going to say you could even skip the part of convincing yourself that it's possible (inaudible at 0:35:52.8) (laughs) change them (inaudible at 0:35:54.0) I think you've changed — you know yourself that you've changed a lot in the time that you've been here already. {0:36:00.4]
 Aware.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Well when you say that, what I get an image of is you are the castle. And there are two knights — suites of armor there. And you've just taken off one and said gee, this fits terrible. And you — boy, it feels good to be out of that. And, here you are and without that suite of armor on and just being able to move. And whatever under clothes you had underneath all that and that it's all — there might be a whole story of just well fitting nice clothes over here that you could pick out and say hey, that's my style. Instead what you do is just gee, now here's another role I could try. Here's another suite of armor. And you grab that one and put it on and see if that one — if you can make that one allotted for you. [0:37:17.3]
Well to me, that's a backward way of going about it. Drop the damn role and just do what's — do what feels right for you instead of this role bit and trying to fit the role. That's where I see you really getting into trouble is you trying to fit yourself to a role and twisting you and turning you out a lot. And that's what's unconvincing about is because it's not you. You're bored with it too. Why shouldn't other people be bored?
 What's going on?
 Okay. I'd rather you look and see whether it's true before you go and (inaudible at 0:38:14.7) [0:38:16.0]
 Right. Right.
 That's (inaudible at 0:39:18.8)
 Is this a (inaudible at 0:39:43.3)
(Overlapping conversation)
 Is this a counter argument?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 0:41:20.6)
 Wow.
 Yeah. Okay.
 A lot of the people I know, I know people that went to the military.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Nothing's wrong with the tape recorder. (inaudible at 0:43:11.1)
 That sounded like you were a little angry at me. (inaudible at 0:43:17.7)
 Well why didn't you (inaudible at 0:43:22.9) I'd rather say —
 Okay. Well I was looking at the tape (inaudible at 0:43:29.2) tape recorder (inaudible at 0:43:30.8) I really need help. On this session, I need help on where we're at right now. And, I was looking at the tape recorder to make sure that I've carefully monitored it because I was going to have another therapist look through this with me and decide where to go to from here.
 That's what that was about.
 (inaudible at 0:43:48.5)
 Okay. I like to share more where I'm at with you. I've got two — oh, I've got about three different kinds of reactions to the kinds of things you're saying. One, I see you as a very real interest, exciting person. I really do. And I just find it extremely unfortunate that you're always trying to sell — trying to screw yourself into a round hole when you're a square peg or vice versa. [0:44:26.8]
And you're so unhappy because you don't fit this mold. Well, crap on the mold. My opinion is that you're so much better than that mold that you're trying to put yourself into. It's like, to me, to Biblical, it's like putting new wine into old wine skins. No wonder the wine skins burst. I mean you're a better stock than that. That's why you can't go through that stereotype crap.
I really don't see it as a weakness on your part. I see it as a tremendous strength that that role is hard for you to play. And I was just (inaudible at 0:45:00.9) and I was thinking how unfortunate it was — okay, I was envisioning you riding in that SLU bus down to the LSU game. Rah. Rah. As everybody's going and you're thinking rah, rah. This is fun or something like that? And, you can have two responses. Gee, I'm not good enough. Gee, I can't play this game (inaudible at 0:45:27.1) Gee, I just don't (inaudible at 0:45:29.1) I don't come up to par. Or you could say what a waste of time. Listen, if this is your idea of a good — I've got a lot better things to do with my time than this. [0:45:38.6]
 Or a kind of a thing, I could go for this. And I guess, for the most part, that's been my response when I've been in similar situations. I'm too good for that junk.
 You know? And you come up with exactly the opposite conclusion. Now I just find it really sad that you keep coming up with that conclusion. Okay. That's one thing. Do you want to say anything in response to that?
 (inaudible at 0:46:20.3)
 What's the incoherence about?
 Of you?
 It just (inaudible at 0:47:18.6)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Right.
 And that's why -?
 You don't have the sense that you could —
 That you could make it any other way.
 Yeah. Well it's hard to carry it off as the complete thing on the first try off. It's hard to make a whole — it's a touchdown when you're on the football field for the first time in your life.
 And I see you as still saying look, it's got to be a touchdown or I don't play. And, that's one of the things that I see really tying you in and preventing you from having any viable alternatives. Because you say look, I really got to play the game well whatever the game is. And, you're not getting — you're incredibly hard on yourself. You're not giving yourself any time to say look, I'm just beginning this. I'm a novice. I'm an apprentice. I'm just learning. So I allow myself mistakes and I wish you would too. That's the step that you don't allow yourself and I don't allow myself a lot of times too. I might add. [0:48:53.5]
 Yeah. One of the reasons I like you, I enjoy you as a human being is because I see you. I see the parts of you that aren't Mr. Perfection and aren't out there making a touchdown every time.
 And you may think that's morbid but I don't. And I — there are a hell of a whole of people besides me that wouldn't think that's morbid. But I see you as very human with very human reactions to things.
 And you're very interesting, vibrant in that kind of way. But when you start playing with this rah, rah or whatever it is -
 It's a rah, rah game and it's a college Joe good guy or something. And it's also a guy in the — that with a little cross of the guy in the grey flannel suit. And it's upper class, snobbishism or really making it good in the society — the big time. And it's a combination of those things. [0:50:09.5]
 Right.
 No. It's not childish. You haven't decided which game you would to play.
 And that's why you're not going any further in therapy right now. That's the honest truth.
 You're not going any further in therapy right now because you haven't decided which way you want to go. It really, to me — okay, maybe I'm over playing it but it seems like a parting in the way. Which game are you going to play? Which game do you want to be good at? And you keep pussyfooting saying well, I like a little bit of this and I like a little bit of that.
 And I think you could play that game. I mean I know people who play that game very well. I've played that game very well believe it or not.
 You may not believe it of being into a lot of different groups that I have friends who would be appalled to find out that they were both friends of mine because they have such different values. And that's been true for me for a long time. [0:53:13.8]
 I like it.
 Yeah. I've gotten a tremendous amount of enjoyment out of it. When I was in high school, I was a true misfit. Or was it junior high, I guess. I was a freshman in high school. And I remember this counselor talking to me about it. She said well — I said I don't have any friends. And she said well, why don't you — who do you like in your class? Why don't you ask so and so to put on some records and share some potato chips. I just (makes sound) sounds absolutely awful. You know that just wasn't my thing at all. That was like a duck —
 Out of water. And, she says okay, well what do you like? What do you like about her? What do you have in common? Do that. And I also had this thing that I thought well, gee, if I'm going to be with Shelley, I have to be all with Shelley and (inaudible at 0:54:05.6) that I don't do from the word go. And she says okay, you know what? You know just because you're a friend in one area doesn't mean that you have to pledge loyalty to everything that she is about. [0:54:18.2]
 Well, it was a tremendous breakthrough for me. Because I did — in fact, I did become very good friends with that girl. And we shared a tremendous amount — and one thing about like this. And there were other areas where I just couldn't —
 And I found other people. And I worked with that friend. And I learned a whole lot of different ways. And got into the deep things and then when we came that places that I said hey, I don't buy that. I want to go. And I'd go be with somebody else that I could do the other thing with.
 And I — there's no reason you couldn't do the same thing.
 But see, I guess what you got to do and that's partly where the two suites of armor come in. I mean you see it as buying one or the other totally. Things like you got to be the rah, rah type or you've got to be the — I don't even know for sure what you've got categorized as the other things. [0:55:13.8]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Right.
 I can do that.
 I better check.
(Pause)
 Let's okay.
 Which is very important.
 Which is very important (inaudible at 0:58:11.8)
 That's the thing that (inaudible at 0:58:14.1)
 Right.
 Yeah. I hear it. That's why (inaudible at 1:00:02.9)
(Overlapping conversation)
 Make it a —
 Oh. I just realized the damn thing, it won't pick it up (inaudible at 1:00:17.4)
 She'll call back tomorrow.
 (inaudible at 1:00:37.1)
 (inaudible at 1:00:41.4) very
 Like you were going to (inaudible at 1:00:44.8) I think that's great.
 I'm willing — I would like to spend another minutes wrapping this up. Do you feel that it's wrapped up and (inaudible at 1:00:58.1)
 Okay. Do you want five more minutes? [1:01:06.4]
 Okay. I'm trying to figure out — I'm trying to help you find out where you are with this right now.
 Well maybe one point —
 That's (inaudible at 1:01:25.4) That's an okay place to be too as long as you say that's where you (inaudible at 1:01:28.7)
 Well see the game of — okay, I don't know. I don't know what you can do about the business situation because I really - well let's leave the business thing out of it. Let's talk about your personal relationships right now. Believe it or not, I also do work with people in terms of helping them relate this to the business associates and kind of (inaudible at 1:02:02.1) there. But I don't want to get into that with you. It's just too complicated right now. [1:02:09.0]
In terms of doing it with other people, you see it seems to catch on (inaudible at 1:02:18.9) being able to say to a person hey, I don't dig that. This I enjoy. Sharing that with them but I don't enjoy this other thing or I don't always think — I'm not interested or I really am no good at that. I'd like to hear about it some maybe but I'm just I'm no good at it. It seems to involve a little of that. And that's the part that I wonder what — are you intending to do?
 Yeah. And say hey, here's where I get off.
 It seems like you get into an incredible ego trip at that point (inaudible at 1:03:03.7) saying no. I have (inaudible at 1:03:06.4) when you've played your hand out. Because that's all the further your interest (inaudible at 1:03:13.7)
 And, that (inaudible at 1:03:30.7) other than (inaudible at 1:03:32.4)
 They've played their hand out. They weren't interested in (inaudible at 1:03:41.6) No wonder they (inaudible at 1:03:42.9)
 They just (inaudible at 1:03:45.7) But, that's why they weren't (inaudible at 1:03:55.8) And that's the same kind of — that's why I think it's very hard for you to put up a good fa�ade. [1:04:05.3]
 (inaudible at 1:04:07.0)
 (inaudible at 1:04:16.5)
 What are you going to do right now?
 You were just telling me — you're going to tell me another argument while that's not true, right?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 It doesn't make any sense that you don't (inaudible at 1:06:56.8) that you don't find an alternative?
 (inaudible at 1:07:15.8)
 Yeah. I think —
 I think you are enjoying it. And that's a fine thing too. But, it's also a good thing to know that you're really enjoying it and that's where you want to be.
 (inaudible at 1:07:51.2) I just am — I (inaudible at 1:07:58.2) drive home my point one more time. (inaudible at 1:08:01.9) determination, I see you having — and I'm just summarizing — your two coats of armor thing as two very firm, distinct alternatives. And what I'm trying to push for you to say is you don't have to put on either coat of armor. You can stand here in the middle. And yeah, you can play (inaudible at 1:08:28.2) ball with those guys if you want to. When you feel like it, you can (inaudible at 1:08:31.3) When something goes wrong with those guys, you might find a few other interesting guy to play ball with that really don't fit either the A or B stereotypes. And there are a hell of a lot of people walking around that don't fit those.
 And, enjoy that. That's the kind of thing I — I guess I felt a little bit — and I really have helped you into this dilemma in some points because I pushed you in terms of which are you going to choose. And I'm realizing that that's not being very true to my own training either in terms of that it's possible to you know. [1:09:10.6]
 How are you doing?
 What happened?
 That's not standard treatment. And so she was getting loopy.
 Whatever. Let's not spend our time on her.
 But she's better?
 All right. Fine. That's all that matters. Uh, November 5th I saw you. Your mood was fine. You weren't very anxious. Your appetite was high. You broke your toe. Can't exercise. Not suicidal. Some hopelessness, helplessness. Getting pleasure from your grandchildren. Not really belly laughs. Some flatness, some anxiety.
 We thought you were doing okay on really just the BuSpar, Lamictal, and Klonopin, correct?
 Okay.
 How has your mood been in these 6 weeks?
 What do you have to take for your mouth?
 Yeah, your thyroid is, uh, it's okay.
 You hotter than other people or colder than other people?
 Lab tests are fine.
 Okay. In these 6 weeks you've had a higher anxiety level?
 Which one, Neurontin?
 [INAUDIBLE] for the trigeminal neuralgia.
 Tegretol.
 Was it Tegretol. Yeah, no, I was in agreement.
 Are you taking that? Can make you tired.
 We never get samples of anti-anxiety medicines.
 So how much Klonopin you taking every day?
 Two of the 0.5s in the morning?
 So one, 0.5, one. And you're also taking the Lamictal and BuSpar?
 Well, it can. And the Lamictal's still at 100?
 And it's a mood stabilizer. Does the higher dose of BuSpar help?
 Are you sad?
 Are you irritable?
 [INAUDIBLE] fear sometimes?
 How's [NAME OTHER]?
 Nothing relapsed?
 How's your appetite?
 So it's low, but you're not losing weight?
 Are you exercising?
 But so far you haven't been?
 Are you sleeping? Sleep well?
 You oversleep?
 Is that a rigid timeframe?
 Your energy's really low?
 Some of that may be the Klonopin.
 I don't understand how you can be so anxious and so tired at the same time.
 How can they coexist? Right now you're anxious and tired? So you could fall asleep and yet you're [INAUDIBLE] anxiety? Any suicidal thinking? Are you hopeless or helpless?
 Helpless. How's your self esteem?
 Do you feel guilty? Status of your marriage?
 Why can't you sell the house?
 So you can't afford the divorce?
 Are you upset about that?
 You were looking forward to it?
 Um, are you getting pleasure from anything?
 Well, it strikes me that you could probably use an antidepressant. 
 It is, but it's a mood stabilizing antidepressant. It's just, you're not on enough to hold back this, uh, this anxiety, this overwhelming anxiety.
 No.
 One that definitely doesn't put weight on is Wellbutrin.
 Yeah. 
 Same thing with [INAUDIBLE] probably is not that activating.
 You should be able to. And we could start at a much lower dose and inch you up slowly. Any of the serotonin medicines, we could try a crumb of Effexor.
 Makes you manic. Well, it makes you manic.
 'Cause we know that Effexor gets in there, gets into your mood system. 
 Yeah.
 [Physician answers telephone.]
 I travel a lot. I get into the sunshine.
 I don't work on it. I just, ah, I just  travel a lot. Um, all right. So what do we do for you? Are you in agreement that we need an antidepressant?
 An antidepressant, it's not really for sadness. In your case it's for the anxiety.
 I think the best thing for this syndrome was Prozac.
 Not going back, but are you in agreement that Prozac seems to help this?
 Did you gain weight on other SSRIs?
 Didn't we try Lexapro?
 Really? When did I try that?
 Must have been a long time ago.
 So it was activating? It juiced you up?
 Zoloft?
 Anything can do anything. And people have different reactions to different things.
 Yes.
 Especially with Klonopin and especially if we start with a very low dose and give you some time to adapt to it. The nice thing about Wellbutrin is, one, it's weight neutral. Two, it's sex neutral.
 Three, right, it doesn't give you any orgasm problem. Three, it's energizing. It's juice. It probably regulates dopamine which is the chemical of drive and motivation and pleasure and energy.
 Yeah. So, um, but we're a little affected by the fact that when we gave it to you, you were jumping out of your skin. Now I think I gave it to you at the 150 dose, and so now I'll give it to you at the lower dose. The lowest it comes is 100.
 So we'll do 100 for a week. If that's okay, you move up to 200 for a week. If that's okay, you move up to 300 a week. The usual dose is 300.
 But you may wind up on just 100. Yknow, it depends on how you.
 Oh, you mean the Trileptal or Tegretol? No.
 Getting better?
 Really?
 You've got some bad luck.
 You've had a bad run. No, not just 1 year. Couple of, a year and a half.
 Well, when I met you in June of '06 you're already 3 years of horrific pain, right?
 Yeah. So.
 A bad 4 year, 4and a half year.
 Really?
 At least you're off the Vicodin.
 The Lexapro was on someone else. It says here Lexapro gave you anxiety. So that was before me.
 I didn't give you Lexapro. All right, so listen.
 Oh, yeah?
 And it was too much.
 If, um, if the Wellbutrin throws too much juice at your system, use Klonopin to contain it.
 Yeah.
 'Cause you're depressed.
 All right. So number one is Wellbutrin. Now, Wellbutrin's in the morning, 100 SR, every morning.
 Times 1 week, 200 times 1 week, and 300, all in the morning. Two is BuSpar, you're on 30 and 30, right?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Three, you're on Klonopin. Now Klonopin should be a 12-hour drug. So if you're finding that you need, um, mid day dose, you might want to just bulk up your morning dose.
 Your disability [INAUDIBLE] here. [Physician takes phone call regarding patient.] [DEIDENTIFIED]. Good afternoon. I'm actually with the patient right now. And I like doing it that way just so she's aware of everything we discuss. Um, so just let me know, what are the, courtesy, yknow, for her courtesy also, um, what's the context of this discussion? Okay. Okay. Is it okay for me to put you on speaker? Okay? Can you hear me? Okay. Could you say that again?DR2: Yes. I'm a psychologist and I'm a consultant to Mass Mutual. And what they asked me to do was review the disability claim files, the treatment records, and tell them whether or not I think that there's impairment if someone's working part time, whether there's restrictions on the patient, to help them to figure out how to kind of manage the claim.
 Three times a week with a psychologist.DR2: Do you know who that is?
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].DR2: So obviously I didn't have any records from that person either here in the file.
 She says the claims examiner knows this.DR2: Okay. Um, I actually wrote down some notes to make this call. I don't have her file right here in front of me. So I could double check and see if those are in there.
 Oh, you're not driving?
 They won't let her drive with good reason.
 She gets shots in her back for pain also.DR2: Okay.
 I'm glad you were here 'cause now you know exactly what was said about you.
 I hate talking about someone without them there. It's just not, yknow. And by the way, everything we say to insurance is in the public record.
 Yknow, so, uh, all right, so we're going to now push Wellbutrin. We're going to maintain the BuSpar where it is. You're going to use Klonopin as needed to the extent that you can walk and talk.
 On those doses. But, yknow, Klonopin as needed.
 And continue the Lamictal. And we're going to maintain the Lamictal at 100. Give me a call in a few weeks, good or bad, just let me know how you're doing.
 Okay? 
 Uh, probably 2 months.
 Yeah. Let me write, what am I writing?
 Wellbutrin.
 It is the Klonopin. It could be the Lamictal a little bit too.
   So, what does maple syrup mean to you?
   And what's important about that idea?
   Well, only, in this case it was, ostensibly, for FSO.
   Well, our time's up.
 And who is she?
 Are you convincing me or you?
 I think you just said that you don't want to risk feeling embarrassed. That's a pretty strong, important statement, that fear of being embarrassed, the fear of angering someone.
 Like getting an e-mail like that would feel really embarrassing?
 What makes you think that's what they're going to say? 00:05:51
 Based on?
 Do you believe that 100 percent?
 So I heard you say, "Apparently it's my own fault, but 30 percent of people in my age group are also unemployed." Those don't seem — do those make sense together to you?
 I don't know the data on this stuff so I don't know whether your assumptions are correct or not.
 Yeah, it does sound like you feel that way.
 Oh, that's hard.
 What makes you say that?
 It does seem like overall in the job market there are advantages to making your application stand out somehow, whether that be through a connection that you've had previously or a connection to a connection that will at least get your name recognized. If you're getting feedback that 70 applications are being received for one position, you have to stand out somehow. 00:11:02
 You can't undo that decision. You have to make decisions now based on how you feel about what is happening now in your thoughts about what's happened along the way.
 For the job you just heard back and they said there were 70 applicants, did they say you were not qualified and have no marketable skills?
 That means you're not?
 I know. That sounded really promising.
 I think one thing that we need to focus on is this is clearly a really frustrating and somewhat demoralizing process, and you're going to be stuck in this process until you find a job. I think what we need to look at and focus on is how we keep you feeling as healthy as possible as you go through this process. You can't take away the process and there isn't anything that you can do to change the job market or make archives positions appear.
 There is nothing in your power that you can do in that regard because I don't think that you're really going to go out and murder current (ph) archivists.
 You can wish they would retire. That's fine.
 So what I think we need to do is look at how do we keep you healthy while you're going through this process that is so hard on you.
 What else sucks?
 What argument were you getting in over and over?
 That's not satisfying for you.
 You're mad at him?
 You can't make him not stressed.
 His moving day?
 Like tomorrow, Tuesday?
 Trying to help him.
 What is the safety net?
 So you know when your insurance is going to end?
 Are you going to need refills at that time? Plan ahead.
 Yeah, get the refills before your insurance expires, as much as you can. I know that doesn't account for if there are any things that crop up that you can't expect; but it will be very short window so hope there will be no emergencies or crises in that couple of weeks and if there are, then there is this Safety Net thing you're speaking of. 00:24:45
 Talk to your parents. Will they cover your cost in that window?
 What do you mean you should have more money than you do?
 Would it feel different to you if you made a different arrangement with them rather than them paying you? What if you arranged for them to be billed directly?
 Why not? 00:26:30
 But if you maybe talk with them and see if they will cover your medical expenses for that time that you may be uninsured and they agree to being billed directly by me, you would need to sign a release because on a bill would show your dates of service and also a diagnosis number. That would be helpful to you to have a bill with that on it if insurance would reimburse you for a portion of the cost, which it might. So you would sign a release with that and they agree that I can bill them directly for services. 00:27:28
 That means battery space is low? We're just going to ignore that for a little bit.
It's going to record for 36 seconds. Let's see if I can erase that.
TAPE ENDS
 I'm okay; doing all right. So what's on your mind?
 Oh, good. [00:01:01]
 I see, by contrast (inaudible) -
 Yes.
 Is your mind, kind of, blank or - ?
 That's (ph) good.
 How so?
 That's hard to do, too.
 What things are those?
 Yes.
 Does it feel, again, as though I'm being hurtful to you as like - ?
 Okay.
 Okay. (chuckles) [00:12:02]
 Yes. (pause)
 (laughter)
 Are these things that you felt more acutely when you were feeling bad? That you're, now, feeling more pervasively all the time? Or is it different than that?
 Like -
 The sense of your grip on reality shifting or not being - or feeling the things you'd believed in, collapsing?
 I see. [00:19:00]
 Yes.
 Good.
 Yes. What was it about?
 What was it about?
 Yes.
 [Other than] (ph), sort of, very well constructed and compelling?
 (laughter)
 I see.
 Yes.
 (laughter)
 I see.
 I think it was about (ph) time.
 (inaudible)
 So you did that whole major in that year?
 I see.
 What was your other major?
 (laughter)
 Yes. (chuckles) [00:29:01]
 And you thought that graduating (ph) was, probably, too easy?
 Right.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes, sure.
 You think?
 Sure.
 What just (ph) happened there?
 I see.
 You're turning your back on yourself, kind of?
 Yes. What's really clear is that you're hurting all the time. It doesn't matter if it (ph) looks that way, it doesn't matter if you're talking about something else. [00:36:01]
 Yes.
 Yes, so that makes me think of the grip on reality thing. You don't really know what you're experience is there.
 (inaudible) sort of, fantasy that you've been hurting the whole time but it's unclear whether that's accurate or not.
 Whether there's some reason that you're confabulating (ph) it that way, or like you're suppressing it the other way. [00:37:03]
 Yes, it sounds pretty terrifying.
 The right thing to do about that (ph)?
 [It all] (ph)?
 Yes. [00:38:00]
 Yes.
 Right. Do you know, since a minute ago or whatever it was - a couple minutes ago, what, sort of, trigger instigated that sense that you had not been talking about what really mattered and how you actually, really, had (ph) been feeling the whole time?
 The thought just popped into your head?
 Can you think of (ph) what you were referring to?
 So the - (inaudible) feel that, as though, is that part (ph) going to save you. And if that's not going to make you special, in some particular (ph) way, it's worthless. And, I guess, that's what it feels like.
 And so, with me, what kind of value were you demonstrating, exactly, a few minutes ago, in talking about it? Like I can imagine any number of sorts of values that might add. But, I guess, I wonder which ones you had in mind. Does that make sense?
 I see.
 I think (ph) you're making it clear that, at some level, it's not like you have such a distorted view of yourself that you don't recognize anything good about (ph) yourself.
 (inaudible) and how (inaudible)
 (laughter)
 (inaudible) [00:44:03]
 (laughter) (inaudible) [00:45:03]
 But, actually, I think that makes a lot of sense.
 Yes.
 Yes, and in fact -
 Yes, especially if they're studying people who self-injure. I...
 ...imagine that they would get a lot of - I wonder [how they picked you, actually.] (ph) In a way, were what they were looking for - I don't know. But my - one of my (inaudible) about what helped you, is ways you feel a little less alone and a little less alienated, with how you're really hurting. [00:46:13] And it seems like that study is designed to be somewhat alienating. I don't know. I don't know if they had this in mind. I mean, you're probably - my idea is that you're right. They were thinking, "We'll just talk to people, make them feel good about themselves, and then they'll act less like people who self-injure."
 (inaudible) Right.
 Right. Right. And, yes, (inaudible) self-injure. What, actually, makes a difference is (ph) to feel less alone, is (ph) what hurts so much. And talking about things that are positive seems like bullshit. I mean, [maybe that's] (ph) a little too strong - [00:47:03]
 Yes.
 (inaudible) sort of related, yes. It alienates you from how you actually feel about yourself.
 [Maybe that's still different; I don't think we're saying the same thing.] (ph)
 (chuckles) [00:48:01]
 So my guess is that affects (inaudible)
 [That's like a cross-subject.] (ph)
 Like, because (ph) everybody is doing the experiment in the same order.
 That there will be a kind of - a habituation (ph) effect (inaudible) everybody. I'm not trying to defend the study...
 (chuckles)
 (inaudible)
 What do you mean?
 [inaudible] before he goes to school?
 Because?
 And you would like to know -
 Does he know exactly what goes on with you?
 How is someone else making you less miserable?
 Well, well wait, wait. You were some, some place specific and now you're just kind of opening the door for the avalanche to come in. 0:03:58.4
 I can't tell you what's going on. I can just continue asking.
 Specific thing that I wanted to know more about is that how, how does another person make you feel better?
 Distracting you?
 Um hum.
 Um hum. Well maybe it feels good to let yourself be needy but maybe he's not reciprocating the way you want. And I am not sure, but, I am not sure what you are saying.
 Which is last night?
 What would you like him to talk about?
 For example?
 And he used to say that because...
 Shut up like what? Do you tell him like I love you all the time?
 Around this? Or.
 What is it, when you say that you feel like you are going to have a breakdown, what does that feel like? 0:09:10.1
 And then you say that you feel like a breakdown, what would the breakdown be?
 What's weak? What's the weak?
 So, I am not clear as to why the weakness?
 It's a weakness with your thinking about him a lot. Is that what you are saying?
 No I am asking. 0:10:55.9
 How do you mean? Explain that a little more.
 Is being here and being and opening yourself up is at the expense of something of you.
 How is this at the expense of your comfort? 0:12:34.3
 It sounds, I mean I'm listening to you [inaudible] and you said there is a lot that is going on and I'm thinking well, with the opening of your schedule with the fact that you don't have to go school anymore. There is a lot of empty space that gets filled up [inaudible]. You look to me a little sad today -
 You never looked to be sad before. 0:14:14.5 
 Why is it scary?
 Talk about it and more chance that [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 [inaudible]
 What is happening?
 Is this, I'm kind of wondering really if you're all the worrying that you doing is some kind of almost like a form of your reassuring yourself that if you are only worry enough you will all be fine. It's like you have to worry in order to get somewhere. 
 I don't remember who said it, it was on TV a few weeks ago. I was following something like maybe this thing that happened with Columbine, the shooting at the school or some such media event that, oh no it was the tornados that went by that this person was [inaudible] and asked them something about are you worried or and this person said you know, I don't remember exactly how he said it but I thought that was a smart thing to say. He said 'no I am not worried' so the person said 'how' or something like that. And 'well worrying doesn't get you anything but it gives you something to do'. Something like that, I don't know, [inaudible].
 I'm not trying to dismiss your worrying [inaudible].
 For you, it seems to me, your worrying is something that you do. Maybe it's almost something like that makes you feel like you are going somewhere. Like if you are worrying, then just like the first test to [inaudible]. Where as if you go to sleep, you're not doing it. 
 You what?
 Uh huh. You feel like what -
 [inaudible].
 What kind of anxious? Where?
 What kind of action?
 Um hum.
 There is many kinds of thought and worrying is one kind of thought, planning in another kind of thought.
 Thinking [inaudible] what it is that you want to do or need to do, you know. 
 I am wondering, I am wondering what I call last [inaudible] and canceled. What's that like?
 Because, you know, I mean our relationship which is also short, you know, canceling one out of I think we had three.
 Yeah, well I traveling.
 [inaudible].
 It is quiet incredible that you just finished a whole year and [inaudible] like two days ago [inaudible] really not doing anything. 
 You're very persuasive your whole life.
 I know as a lad you have fun. 
 You're laughing.
 Just write about it. What I am saying is that you know a person can be very ambitious and want much more out of their lives. And this is a testament later to not being completely content in your own life at the moment. Because if you are happy you don't want anything. 
 But it doesn't have to be at the cost of looking at everything that you are doing as contemptible, not worthy of a moment of sitting down and saying uh, I tired, I've had fun having this drink, I am enjoying myself. 0:24:08.9
 Yeah, you go dancing and you do that.
 But then, but then it kind of snaps back.
 Feels like to me that you have this part of you. This part of you tells you Oh you not doing anything important. So [inaudible]. And once in a while you can detach it from yourself [inaudible]. But it is kind of connected with an elastic and after a while it's in a way you give it snaps back.
 [inaudible].
 With the clouds, what do you mean?
 Collapse, what's that?
 Remaining next week, Thursday right?
 You know where to find me, if you need to before then.
 I am just saying.
 What do you mean?
 Okay in what sense?
 Inappropriate?
 Appropriate. 0:25:53.9
 Uh huh.
 And you didn't get it from me.
 Well maybe one of the things for us to talk about in this connection is what, what really, I mean because you are asking me to give you some sort of opinion about and it is kind of interesting what kind of opinions that you want from me. 
 [inaudible]
 But that is something else that you are telling me now. There is one thing for me to tell you, yeah what you are going through with Carl is natural or whatever. And the other says, I guarantee you your not going to have a breakdown. You're trying to make me a little Betty Ford. 0:27:18.1
 Well I understand what you are saying. And what I mean I understand, it's not just that I understand the meaning of the word and the syntax. I understand what it feels like. I definitely don't think it is out of line or crazy.
 And I do feel, you know, its like you are sitting here and I feel a strong need to kind of console you and tell everything will be okay. But I think it is part of the work that we are doing and that we are going together is figure out exactly how that is going to be. And you know, but I can tell you right now is that I see that this is very difficult for you. But and so I tell you, you know, we are meeting next Thursday but you know where to find me if you need to before. Because I want to keep [inaudible] if you want for any reason talk to me before you can do that. But I don't mean this to hint to you that I think you are going to have a breakdown or anything like that. That's not what I am saying.
 I'm just trying to respond to what. So let try to leave [inaudible].
 It would be a great story, for what?
 [inaudible]
 Alright thank you. I'll see you next week.
 How you been?
 Good, good.  What's new anything?
 Good.
 Excellent.  Boy, that was fast.
 Wow, that's unusual because I know a lot of folks, it takes them a while to build up.
 Excellent.
 And are you doing more cash, or are you on insurance plans?  I can't remember.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.  So, that's good.  I think, in this community, it seems much easier if you're on insurance plans, since 'cause so many people have coverage, so.
 So how, how busy do you wanna get, do you know?
 Okay, so you're almost there.
 Okay.
 Sure, that helps.
 Yes.  Yep, that's important.  Well, good, good.  So, that's working very well.
 Excellent.  Any major problems or glitches you've run into?  Or just kinda gradually building?
 It has its advantages doesn't it.
 Uh-huh.  And where's your office?
 Union and Academy, okay.
 Okay.  So, I'm thinking are you by Target or by the library or
 Closer to Target.
 Okay, I know.
 Oh, yes, west.
 Yeah.  Or by like [INAUDIBLE], over in that area.
 Okay.  I think I know where you're at then.  Good.  Because I don't think there's any therapists kind of at the north end of town either, are there?
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 It's shifting.
 Good, good.  Is that close to where you live, too?
 Okay, uh-huh.
 Good.
 Yeah, what, 15, 20 minutes or so to get to work?
 Good.  So, your spirits been pretty good overall, then?
 Okay
 Uh-huh.
 Are you having trouble getting to sleep or staying asleep?
 Okay.  Are you still using the Trazodone and the Ambien?
 Yeah.
 That's fine.  The Trazodone is the 1 that's pry better at keeping you asleep.
 Ambien's better at getting people to sleep, so, if you wanted to bump 1 up on the Trazodone, it will probably be more helpful keeping you asleep.  How much are you taking of it now?
 So 250.  Okay, and how much Ambien?
 Well, you can go up to 400, so.
 So that's 5 mg tablets and you're taking 2.5.
 Um-hum, okay.
 Ah.
 Okay.
 Okay, okay.
 They say
 It's supposed to.  Any of the medicines that increase serotonin are supposed to help some women with hot flashes.  Unfortunately, it doesn't always work.  And Effexor does increase serotonin so at least in theory, you'd think it might help.
 True.  That's a good point.  Now
 Okay.
 Yeah, okay.  Where you're awake for an hour, then you get back to sleep and then you wake up, you feel rested, or are you tired?
 And then during the day do you feel tired, or is your energy level okay?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.  How's your appetite been?
 It's stable.  Okay.  Have you been able to focus and concentrate reasonably well, yknow, with getting woken up.
 Okay.
 Short term, long term?
 Like in the last few minutes, or like years ago?
 Okay.
 Oh.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, I don't know if that's sleep related or other related.  Um, how about anxiety or panic attacks, any problems recently?
 Okay, it hasn't developed
 Into full blown attacks, okay.  Okay.  Are you enjoying yourself these days with day to day activities?
 So it just kinda comes and goes.
 Hm.
 Ah, so
 Huh.  Now, on top of the world, is this, have there been many bipolar swings that are manic swings.  You don't feel like euphoric, elated like, um - 
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay, um-hum.
 Yes.
 Good.
 So, it doesn't cause problems for you when you feel really good.
 It's not going to the point where you're spinning excessively or making impulsive decisions.
 Okay.  And how long do those good times last?  Do they go on for days or weeks?  Or is it more hours to days?
 Yeah.
 Well, it's worked well for you.
 Good.
 Okay.  Yeah, it doesn't sound like it's anything detrimental or harmful, like a hippomanic phase where you're getting into impulsive or dangerous or risky decisions or anything like that.  It sounds like it's not
 Okay.
 Okay, okay.  Um, and medication wise, any side effects or problems that you're aware of?
 Okay.  You're taking them pretty consistently.
 Good.
 That's smart.  And if you can remember, that's good too.  A lot of people just forget.
 Um-hum.
 So you can feel it.
 Yeah.  Especially with Effexor.  That's probably the 1, more than any other anti depressant that people really notice if they don't take it.  Uh, the absence of it is really noticeable which helps remind people to take people if [INAUDIBLE] kind of rough sometimes.  Goodness gracious.  So, let's see, you're on 2 things.  You still taking Buspar twice a day?
 Three Effexor each morning.  Trazodone and Ambien at night.  And again, you can take more, especially the Trazodone, and the way you'll know if you're taking too much Trazodone is you'll be groggy in the morning, it'd be hard to wake up then you probably need to back off a little bit.  If you're not groggy in the morning from the medicine, then you can go up a little higher if you want to or need to.  If you wanta just ride this out, you could, too.  It's up to you.  But again, the maximum is 400 so you're not there yet.  Although it's rare people get to that much because usually by the time they get to 400, people are usually pretty groggy in the morning.  Um, and that's it, so, uh, anything else?
 Uh hum.
 CR
 Um-hum.
 It might.  It, it, often those people stay asleep another hour or 2 before it wears off.  It's not as good at getting people to sleep, though.  So, if you're not having trouble getting to sleep, we could try it and see if you sleep longer with the CR, um, if you're having trouble getting to sleep, a lot of people don't like the CR as well because it doesn't give them as much up front, so they don't fall asleep as easily.
 Um, now with you taking the Trazodone, too, I don't know for sure how it would work.  If you wanna try it, I've got some samples.  You could try and just see if you like it better.
 You want me to give you some samples.
 Okay.  Yeah, I'll give you some and you can see what you think.
 That's a good idea.  Let me give you both strengths of the CR.  There's 6.25 or a 12.5.
 Here's a couple of each.
 Sure.  And if you find that you like 1 or the other, just call me and I'll call in a prescription for you for whichever 1 works the best.
 And, uh, if you try the 6.25, it's about the same as the 5 Ambien now that you're taking, although these, you're not supposed to cut them in half, so you're actually gonna be getting more medication, too, 'cause if you're taking a half of a 5 and you go to a 6.25, it's kinda like doubling your dose.
 Which is still fine.  You can also go up to 12.5 which would be like quadrupling your dose.  If you do that, you might have to back off a little bit on the Trazodone.
 So, I'll let you try it and see what you think and if you have questions, just call me, okay?
 But we'll see if that helps you get longer sleep.  That's really important.
 That's right.
 Yes.
 Really.  And that may happen again if you go up on the dose.  That's something you have to be careful about.
 But you, you can try it.  It's a little different.  It's a slower release.  It might, um, again carry you more through the night.  It doesn't hit you as hard up front, so again you may not, I don't know if you'll have amnesia or not, so if you do, they'll back off and go back to the immediate release and up the Trazodone.
 Does that sound reasonable?
 Okay.  If you have any questions, call me because there are other things we could try, too, besides this.  I'm trying to remember, did you ever try Lunesta for example?
 Yeah, Lunesta's another sleep medicine that doesn't have as much memory impairment associated with it that seems to last a little bit longer than the Ambien for some people.
 And there's some others out there, too.  Those are the, Ambien and Lunesta are pry the 2 most commonly used sleep meds these days and Trazodone.
 But, uh, we can try different combinations if this doesn't work.
 Okay?  What else?  Any other questions, concerns, problems?
 Yes, doing really well.  Oh, 1 other question, when you do have those dips, do they seem to be situationally triggered, something stressful happen, or did they just seem to come out of the blue?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.  And do you know what it is about weekends that could be the trigger?  Is it being alone more, is it - 
 Okay, uh-huh.
 Okay.
 So you said the mood precipitates the weekend.  So, kinda how you're feeling Friday evening going into the weekend you mean?
 Okay.  Uh, okay.  Well, I'm thinkin' again, too, maybe if you get better sleep during the week, you're more rested, that may help you deal with the week better and be a little more rested during the week, I would hope.
 So, okay, yeah, so let's work with the sleep meds to see if we can get you sleepin' better and see if it helps with the lows.  If it doesn't, we have some other things we can do to try to prevent those dips that you're having, too.
 Okay, anything else you can think of at this point?  Okay, I was gonna check on refills real quickly.  Looks like we're good on the Buspar 'til November, um, Effexor we're good through June.  The Trazodone, we're good through November and the Ambien, um, did not use the refill.
 Oh, you just got it, okay, so, we're good for now.
 Okay, you're just gonna let me know that if you need anything else.  I think we're good.  All right.  Um, should we just set up a time to check back?  Is 3 months about right for you, or do you wanna check in sooner this time or 
 Okay, we're making some changes.
 That sounds good.
 I know, more and more people are using them with good success.
 Yeah, most people are paying about 2 to 250 for them.
 Using them 20, 30 minutes in the morning and I know a lot of people say it's really helping.  Especially with daylight getting shorter, so it's
 Okay.
 That sounds good.  Well, let's see, so 2 months will put us into November.  You wanna do something like this, around 8:30 again?
 Okay.  Um, I've got either Monday the [DATE]12th or Wednesday the 14th of November, if either of those will work.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.  Would you like a reminder card also.
 Okay.  Sounds good.
 Oh, where are you going?
 Good for you.
 Oh, that's too fun.
 That'll be a good time of year, too, probably.
 How many days?
 Oh, that'll be nice.  That's a good way just to get away isn't it?
 Good.  I'm sure you'll have a great time.
 Good seeing you.
 All right.  Good seeing you.  You bet.
 You, too.  Call if you have any questions or need anything.
 And I'll see you in a couple of months.
 Bye bye.
 Hi Sylvia, it's Josephine.
SYLVIA: Hi Josephine.
 The following is brought to you in living color. Client Number 0426-002, UN Number 105, Interview Number 752, Tract B. Client Number 0426-002 Real Number 105, 7th Interview, Track B, Side 2.
 Well, not as cool as I'd like it to be but... 
 I don't have it.
 I can get you one if you want one?
 Okay.
 And what you really are is like up and down, the roller coaster [overlapping voices at 0:02:31.8]... 
 To Jessica?
 Yes.
 So it sounds like you were moving in one direction very purposefully and it felt good to be moving in that direction?
 And he was saying you should really be moving in that other direction?
 Yeah.
 Bring out the word marshmallow?
 Yeah.
 Fill her with kindness?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 [inaudible at 0:05:56.2]... 
 Yeah.
 So what you saw as kind of sexiness before now, you see it like phoney acting?
 Like surgically? I don't know what you mean.
 Oh, and then now, in retrospect, as if she were later it hit you that what she was doing was freezing you out, left you out of the conversation?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yes.
 [inaudible at 0:09:06.9]... yes.
 Yeah. Yes, and you can see, one thing you see so clearly is somebody else playing the role of [go through] (ph) [0:09:17.9] whatever that is, exactly the role you were playing.
 [inaudible at 0:09:37.1]... 
 Yeah.
 You're not wanted?
 Oh, oh.
 Yes.
 Yeah. But it sounds that you kind of get the point, whether she does it in a nice way or not.
 [inaudible at 0:12:34.0]... 
 Yes.
 Yeah. Well, I mean, you can see her working at it because you're also to yourself seeing doubt and you started to pass over your, ignore her.
 She sounds like the sorority school [inaudible at 0:13:55.9]... 
 Yeah. [inaudible]... because I know what it does to you. It sounds like it makes you furious with her. So I'm not sure that maybe why you do [inaudible at 0:14:08.5]... like she doesn't get caught at it.
 Well, like she feels exposed to you in some ways that make her uncomfortable.
 Oh, oh, so that was, so it was her one way of escaping the closeness with you?
 Hurt?
 So maybe you lose track of what you want to do and you're either, of how you should then do something?
 Those steps just take you through a maze to be fucked (ph) with?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Sympathetic?
 Yeah. It's like that all she can tell is, you only need, the only person she's interested in, that she has Any rapport with is Wes, period.
 For?
 Certainly if this has to always lead to you?
 Yeah. So it's sort of in the abstract you can be understanding but when you see it happening before your eyes.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 [You need to that bracing, huh?] (ph) [0:18:43.7]
 Yes.
 Because she's not going to [inaudible at 0:19:42.6]... 
 Yes.
 You mean ignorance is bliss?
 Yeah.
 Sounds like when you think about her over the last week, like everything she's done is either iced you out or sort of frosted out at your children?
 [inaudible at 0:22:41.6]... 
 You're not beguiled Any more at her charm?
 So are you saying, like right now you don't?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Feel like a damn fool?
 Yeah, trotting along worshipfully [inaudible at 0:25:10.1]... 
 Yeah, but it's like you've been sitting under that [inaudible at 0:25:39.0]... of reality nobody else can see because they would think I was crazy?
 And I'm sort of trapped with my own perceptions of her and my own dislike for her. Nobody else is going to verify it.
 [inaudible at 0:26:05.9]... because you've lost her [inaudible]... 
 Yeah [inaudible at 0:26:20.5]... working toward that much of a union.
 Yeah, but your friendship was dust [inaudible at 0:26:35.2]... 
 Sounds like the honeymoon created when you're sort of like, looked over and inspected and appraised, then they make a decision.
 Between you and?
 Jan?
 I don't understand [inaudible at 0:28:29.7]... if it continues, your animosity toward Jan?
 Is?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's okay with you?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 [You have to stay strong.] (ph)
 Yeah. He is? So to have a fight, you know in advance you're going to wind up the one hurt.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 And the answer is, you two are on pretty tenuous ground?
 Yeah. The outsiders?
 Because you are just blah?
 You don't shine?
 There's a couple that you don't really [inaudible at 0:32:03.2]... 
 Yeah.
 You're not so bad, just the second rung, you're second rate?
 So you, for instance, take your turn and so should they (ph)?
 Some people take larger turns [as if that was the same?] (ph) [0:33:12.0]
 Oh, call her?
 Yeah.
 You're not going to let yourself get suckered in so easily by amiable peers?
 [inaudible at 0:36:10.1]... talent of yours?
 Yeah. So he had her pegged all the time?
 But that doesn't really leave you feeling like Jessica's [inaudible at 0:36:35.7]...? Not only were you taken in by her but he wasn't?
 Yeah.
 How does that make you feel?
 Yeah.
 [inaudible at 0:38:23.8]... 
 [Unfair to Jessica if you say that?] (ph)
 Oh, that you're sort of like, gumming up, like Katerine, like Jodie, you're feeling very happy being with Jessica and you're like the snake in the garden of Eden or something?
 Yes?
 She wouldn't believe you in a million years?
 [inaudible at 0:39:12.6]... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So maybe it isn't that you're more protective, it's just that somehow you will be hurt, I mean, like more vulnerable you think?
 Other people thinking [inaudible at 0:40:34.9]... they've decided not to be that wounded?
 Yes.
 Yes. Other priorities [inaudible at 0:40:58.2]... 
 Yeah. But that must feel like that you [inaudible at 0:41:22.4]... no matter how long you have?
 I hear you say that a lot. I'm with someone, really I haven't had Anyone to love [like you love Richard.] (ph) [0:41:34.5]
 [To be human with?] (ph)
 Yes.
 Yes.
 And discovering things about you that were [inaudible at 0:42:41.9]... 
 Yes. It was like he always existed, if only he had known but he had no way of knowing?
 And you're a guest [inaudible at 0:43:43.4]... 
 Yes.
 It sounds like there have been a lot of questions for you?
 It's just where it has been locked up inside you, you felt [inaudible at 0:44:52.8]... about... 
 Yeah. I've had a funny feeling about, or I'm having a funny feeling as you're telling me this, that there's something like I had a feeling that there was more to it than sex though. And I thought you said to me, "Well, like...I can know this, I could know objectively that masturbation wouldn't affect climax..." But that might be you need the effect, "...but I have feelings that the facts can't touch." At least I thought that was what she was saying last night. I guess maybe not was what she was saying. Maybe like... 
 Yeah.
 Which has nothing to do with, which are a large number of women [inaudible at 0:46:58.3]... or don't reach climax?
 Oh, oh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 [overlapping voices at 0:47:39.4]... shortcuts like you were saying, it's something like, you can be pretty good or all right in that region (ph), like no meanness (ph)?
 Yeah.
 Sometimes awful people don't?
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 One reason possibly she feels, I mean, when you were talking about the Wyoming and Florida course, probably left you feeling like let down...like let down by whoever taught that course and let down by your mother.
 Like you weren't given the tools when they would've matter?
 [inaudible at 0:53:09.0]... So what this really had is like neglect your malevolence (ph) and gave you credit for more knowledge than you had? [overlapping voices at 0:53:30.9]... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I'm curious that after being like, bumble along and that it should be kind of like you almost distantly will view this and say [inaudible at 0:55:01.0]... 
 Like you sound like a reasonable [inaudible at 0:55:57.3]... almost miraculous?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, but you were immature (ph), and you were in a position where you really could have been taken advantage of.
 There's a man what?
 Your father?
 I can see where you meant that as [inaudible at 0:58:00.9]... 
 Okay.
 That he wouldn't look?
 Yeah.
 That he didn't look?
 Yeah. Both, so it sounds to me like both instances were... 
 [He really liked to but...] (ph) [1:00:11.8]
 Well, let me try, I'm not sure of this. Wondered if maybe he should have given me either, should have given me the sense as a woman, either by treating me as if it were taboo or by [inaudible at 1:00:57.9]... desiring me or being curious or interested but... 
 Interested (ph)?
 For heaven sakes!
 Yeah. Did it make you wonder, to think he might have?
 Wait a minute, that's what I meant.
 Like maybe he's right and I'm wrong? Maybe I'm not a woman?
 Yes.
 I think there are [inaudible at 1:02:48.5]... feelings for you in there, just like, sort of like, being in the bathtub is like very confined or just precarious. Like being on a gynecologist's table and you're like, there you are and there isn't a hell of a lot you can do about it?
 Close the door or throw a towel around you?
 And let themselves, I don't know, now looking back at it, it's like considered like violating?
 (phone ringing - short phone conversation) So you, [inaudible at 1:03:59.4]... 
 But I thought you were saying though, that you were upset when you...?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 [inaudible at 1:05:13.6]... 
 [inaudible at 1:05:44.0] ... south of Florida and someone brought me a bigger size there.
 Are you asking if there's a [inaudible at 1:06:02.3]... well, that it takes a [inaudible]... that it cuts?
 No, but you can't buy a box of black and then... 
 Bye. [audio fuzzes from 1:06:37.4 to 1:06:54.3]
 Client 0324-006 Session Number four, 1970. Client 0324-006 Session Number four. How are you? [That awful blank moment, huh?] (ph)
 It sounds like making motions for something new like the redecorating and that kind of thing but not knowing what's going to go in there. 0:02:06.0
 Um hmm.
 Is that clear for you when you are and when you're not? 0:05:38.7
 And I thought fine and so we went to pick up some stuff at his house, get his mail or something like that. And I said, "You don't feel like you have to stay?" and he said sort of, "Well are you sure you're going to be alright?" And then I realized that well I've even (inaudible) today was that I was he was worried about me and he felt really responsible for me. Then he really didn't want to stay.
 And I had completely misperceived it. At which point you know like crash. Where as I had been fine and nice and (inaudible) which I felt all that night this really strong evidence that that, on the way I was that I couldn't just have a nice really good relationship, equal relationship with him. Just and and that it was my fault.
 In that I mean I had really so scared him from being because I'd been dependent and because in a lot of ways he hadn't. I mean I was really screwed up. I was doing all kind of really out the way things and I really was suicidal. And, he knew that things that he would do just by making me upset would in a sense trigger this. They weren't in any way directly the cause but, just by being an emotional figure for me...
 ...he held a lot of power. And, and so then of course he would feel responsible when I would do something because he made me mad or upset or because he didn't come through when I wanted him to or something like that. And, this is not the role that I wanted at all. Anyway I mean that just, like I was just so I was just so nice and strong and he said, "Are you sure you're going to be alright? And I said, "Yes." Because at that point I couldn't have said anything else because it would of like I would have then made him come over which I didn't want either. But I also knew damn well I wasn't alright and I was really messed up. And I just said goodbye to him and dropped him off and was damn glad I didn't know anyplace I could drive off bridge at that point because I really felt like it. I mean I just felt like driving until until I couldn't drive any farther. Expect I feel (inaudible) and couldn't have anyplace to drive. I needed some nice country or mountain road or anything else I would have just taken off to. 0:11:16.8
 Because I wanted to get something clear because I hear you saying about this thing with your boyfriend like, "I feel very responsible for his attitude towards me. I've laid it on him so often that he is that he can really do things to me or his importance to me means he can hurt me." I wondering like, it suddenly hit him how did it how did it feel at that point to be seen only as a only in the aspect of yourself that are like sick or dangerous or something like that.
 That was the thing that he...
 You're saying, "I've fixed it so he can't see me any other way."
 Okay. And then...
 Not like, and then he says that I mean he says that, "You're sure you'll be alright?" You weren't alright and you did need him in that clingy way.
 No gushing. Whatever was there didn't just arise (ph) out. 0:14:26.5
 Okay let me, let me say something here. It sounds like within in the space of what two hours you ran the gamut of how you can feel from one end to the other. And it sounded like a little earlier when you started talking about this you were saying, "At a time like this I feel as though I have immense amount of energy and drive at my command and I feel like I can really start but it's also very precarious because the least little thing can just collapse that. And I'm not sure something that came to my mind wasn't so it makes me not really trust that energy", but I'm not sure that's there for you or something.
 Yeah. 0:17:40.3
 It sounds like you felt just so easy that he was it was like you were so easy to sweep aside or not (inaudible). 0:19:26.4
 Maybe he doesn't think about it consciously but there's something (inaudible) in which he feels he's going to get entangled.
 Right and I guess what's hitting me about that is it sounds like it feels to you so immovable the way that is now. At least as you've been talking about it tonight it's like, and there you don't see anyway of getting through to him that there are times when you're not like and there are even ways he could tell. 
 Or he could take a few risks and you'll be very you could be very straight about where you are or something. That sounds like you feel that it's all a closed case now in a sense.
 And what I'm hearing is that - I feel as if I'm very analytical about it but I feel like taking pieces and looking at them - it's like, closeness with this guy anyway seems to me like you're only close when you're clinging. That that part of that is that there the way this relationship is now there is you don't see any other way to be close. Is that (inaudible)?
 He doesn't and I'm also getting a feeling strongly that you see a way that, that hypothetically could be could happen but you don't really see it happening. You don't see how it can.
 But you're saying those times either gotten through to him or haven't made a dent on him and that really... 0:26:41.8
 Uh hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 0:37:18.3
 You felt shamed or like really had to defend yourself.
 Where have you been?
 It sounds to me like all of your all the things that are issues for you ganged up on you that day and you had like one chance to reach out and make a positive, do something positive or use, use yourself in a positive way and that was cutoff and you were left feeling like a well like a (inaudible) is like a huddled frozen (inaudible) in the corner. Very far away from everybody, unable to move. 0:39:56.8
 If somebody came up to you - I don't know if you can answer this but - if somebody came up to you at a time that you were feeling that and said and really meant it like, "I want to hear what you're going through right now. Tell me." Would you feel you could tell them? 0:42:14.2
 Um hmm. But like it isn't you're saying it's not just a matter of having a receptive offer there's really something in you that feels the need or I'm not sure what.
 It's sounds sort of like talking about witch craft or something but, I keep getting this feeling it's like, "The only energy I have is bad energy. Or the only power I have is bad power. When I let something out it puts people off. This self that I was feeling last night it was hell for me but I couldn't I mean I can't even tell anybody about it because it was so bad."
 And like so you end up getting it sounds like you ending up just getting trapped there until you got so tired that you couldn't...
 Yeah. 0:45:52.3
 It's like you felt what destructive and irrational and at least are you saying, "At least I sat with that there. I didn't take myself out of it or I didn't", I wasn't really sure about the last part of what you said I guess.
 Yeah there was something about, I thought in what you're saying, "Well at least I stayed there and sat through it." Now I'm not sure I heard that right.
 No there's something like that, are you saying that sharpened how bad it was? But there's all these that situation carries so many of the demands that you, you were sitting there watching yourself not meet them and that made it much worse. 0:48:55.4
 Okay but it sounds like at least something was made very much more vivid by just being there. Like the feelings weren't so different but them and the context of what ought to be or something. I don't really get (inaudible) like that. 0:51:12.6
 Well it sounds like it was more than just a question of not being able to think of anything to do but at that point you wouldn't have been able to do anything. It sounds like you felt really bereft of any of the any of what you need to change that at all at that point. 
 I'm wondering if you're feeling frustrated right now.
 Like it sounds like it's such a big all encompassing and at that point sort of final or inloopable (ph) thing that it's very, I don't know frustrating is too (inaudible) but it's sort of like it's awful not to be able to even describe that. That's so big and it so gripped you or something. 0:53:57.9
 Where did it where did it leave you feeling about it today? 0:57:00.9
 Okay. Tomorrow at 3:30 will be okay?
 Whichever you prefer.
 Would you rather come on Tuesday?
 Okay. (inaudible). So you can come at 3:30 on Tuesday?
 Okay. (inaudible) Bye.
 Bye.
 Let's see this, is the first hour, 1970. Hi, what are you feeling?
 Okay, [inaudible at 0:00:37.5]... 
 I don't know.
 Yeah?
 We never talk about the wedding?
 We don't talk about.
 And that comes into it (ph)?
 You mean kind of like uncomfortably though?
 Not terribly uncomfortable, just a little?
 [inaudible at 0:01:24.2]... It sounds like you shifting a lot? Are you shifting in how you're feeling or?
 Not much?
 Yeah. I guess any place is okay to. What have you been doing?
 [inaudible at 0:02:45.3]... 
 Do you want to?
 Well, that's [overlapping voices at 0:03:08.2]... 
 You want to and you'd like me to help by some how encouraging you or... 
 ...by doing what I... 
 The best way to start is to talk about what you're feeling right now, with whatever is important you'll be feeling, but that's sometimes really hard to do.
 Uneasy, kind of squirmy or is it uneasiness for different?
 Nothing useful is happening? That you see me... 
 My fault because I let you be tense instead of... 
 Yeah, and so you're thinking, "Well now (ph) she's supposed to be helping me..." 
 "...and I don't know what to do."
 ..."I've never done this before now."
 We all are. "And so I tried but he wasn't so helpful or I wouldn't be in the shape I'm in and so."
 It don't help?
 [I'm thinking.] (ph) [0:05:44.1]
 I don't know.
 I guess you've seen my [a no-no folder] (ph) about you today (ph)?
 And you kind of like that?
 Surprises you or not?
 But it feels pleasant to hear me say, "Hey, no, I don't know."
 How do I seem?
 Comfortable, uncomfortable?
 Like some how that we're not both uncomfortable and then you're burdened some way or something?
 How did that grab you?
 [inaudible]... People want to, just they grab you or how did they grab you? Supposing I don't know what to do [inaudible at 0:07:25.8]...?
 So it sort of scares you like, and also makes you feel like, "Well, my God, I'm wasting my time and I don't..." [overlapping voices at 0:07:49.0]... 
 What kind of things would you say to yourself?
 You're saying, "You'll make me feel bitter." But that's a kind of a conclusion you draw from certain kinds of, like sentences you think. Like it's different than, "God damn, you know, what the hell am I..." That's more of the sentences you sort of think, right?
 You feeling helpless now?
 You're acting like there's something you're supposed to be or [to understand] (ph)?
 What do you want to do?
 Or in, or any place that's better than, worrying about that's better than worrying about what you should do?
 You mean to get out of bed and wake up and...?
 And so, "What the hell am I getting up for?"
 Well, what do you say to yourself when you wake up?
 Yeah.
 You make yourself feel this?
 You're feeling glummier (ph)?
 When do you feel it?
 And somewhere in the driving you [overlapping voices at 0:11:09.5]... 
 Okay.
 And then looking forward to this and then it disappeared?
 Like you're not sure what exactly, but some how in the process of driving around and then coming in and eating and... 
 What did you think about it?
 Was it, in what tone of happiness?
 [inaudible at 0:12:35.0]... crowd. I hope they get numbers. But it was more kind of what, pleasant or?
 Yeah, but I don't know what that kind thing, "Yeah, hey, my recs (ph) here!" Or... 
 "What kind of meeting? I might run to that." It's some sort of a thing, I'm getting a pleasant but there's different, like shades.
 All right.
 That's okay.
 Why don't you give me a [inaudible at 0:13:24.1]... 
 Okay, that's what you're not, what are you? You don't have to explain it clearly if it's not clear. Maybe it will get clear when you talk to me about it.
 You know something of what you're feeling? You're no nat (ph) on a wall. [overlapping voices at 0:14:04.4]... 
 Words, gestures, what?
 Okay, you're here.
 [inaudible at 0:14:22.7]... 
 [You cry I get you?] (ph)
 Do that a little bit until you can find words.
 [overlapping voices at 0:14:51.2]... You're feeling [inaudible]... you live with this man and maybe I... 
 What do you mean by intellectually comfortable? That's such a big thing and what's the feeling, like I'll be good?
 And you sort of think to yourself [overlapping voices at 0:15:21.5]... 
 Yeah, okay. So granted, you might change your mind but right now you're thinking [overlapping voices at 0:15:25.9]... 
 And they'll say, "Hey, she's good."
 Yeah, like somebody needs Mike (ph)?
 But that's what?
 Okay, what is?
 Haven't we?
 I mean, does it feel like we have or like we haven't?
 So you're feeling more, like, "I don't know for sure if we've moved or if we're going some place now or not, but she kind of feels like she's good." Is that how you're seeing it?
 All right, so change it. Because I'm not going to be right, I just... 
 Yeah. Okay, but then we'll, it sort of feels that it, you'll get clear. Like I'm telling you what I've heard or what I get, so that you can say, "No, now he, it's not bad. It's more..." And carry it through this.
 You know, like what you do and what you think about this?
 (chuckling) That's feeling.
 Just okay?
 [You know, treat me like a friend.] (ph) Pleasant, fun, entertaining, good, nice, can be a lot of different... 
 Sure.
 Are you kind of feeling like...a little play thing and... 
 And not all glummer.
 You mean again having that feeling, heavy or glum?
 [Still feeling you're just as dazed?] (ph) [0:18:53.5]
 Got a label for it and got more of an idea of [overlapping voices at 0:19:13.0]... 
 Somehow being able to say, "Hey, this, is bad."
 "Now come on, let's do something about that." And so more of a handle on it than just being?
 You mean... 
 Is that detrimental?
 Yeah, but it's just a very different kind of a feeling it sounds like?
 It's sort of a [overlapping voices at 0:20:25.3]... light uncomfortable or something.
 Should be sent (ph) above everything?
 Why?
 Right. Let's see.
 We were, from what I've understood, supposed to meet 20 times.
 And then if you, at that point or something, decided you wanted more therapy, you'd have to, you wouldn't lose your place on the waiting list... 
 ...if you've been on the waiting list... 
 ...for a different therapist.
 Now, between now and Summer is probably not 20 weeks.
 So that's what you're saying, right?
 Maybe you can back it?
 I don't know what he's doing. I don't know what the experiment is. I just agreed to participate.
 I don't know.
 Let's see, even if you came in twice a week, would that still... 
 Would it?
 [inaudible at 0:22:29.8]... 
 Well, let's see, I'm not coming into the center. Can you get midtown?
 Okay, then maybe we can find a different day, maybe Friday or something.
 Yeah, Monday at 4 would be fine.
 I'll give you the address.
 I'll check with him.
 Here, whoops.
 There's parking on the street in front of the building.
 There's also a garage... 
 ...attached to the building. You can park in the garage and that costs a dollar and a half. There's a park, it's right across from the Train Station and there's parking right there, the big New York Central.
 And you can also park there, in their lot. And there's parking I think, on some of the streets around there. I don't know.
 I park in my garage, so.
 Okay, I guess, what will I do? I'll leave a message with the receptionist for you and I guess I can probably find out by tomorrow, so I could probably have her have a message for you. And I'll check with Jack Anastisiou (ph) and make sure we've got the okay.
 What do you mean, doing what things?
 Yeah.
 That way you would then be seen twice a week and you'd be finished I guess before you left.
 It sounds like you kind of like it but it doesn't [overlapping voices at 0:25:34.6]... 
 [It may stop.] (ph) [0:25:41.6]
 Why do you feel now? Are you feeling a little jumpy or what?
 So it's kind of uncomfortable?
 Like happens when you're quiet?
 Is that why you were quiet a second ago?
 Didn't have... 
 Yeah. Well, if you're thinking about something then you can talk about it.
 Unless you don't want to, so?
 We're here to talk about what you're feeling.
 Why are you here?
 Okay.
 Okay, so what do you want straightened?
 Pick one.
 You're saying that to yourself [right here] (ph)? [0:29:43.0]
 Okay.
 Something like, "I'm not a [inaudible at 0:29:48.0]..."?
 How would you say it?
 I don't know, it's all right, just say it, "It's down there."
 How would you say it if you felt it at the same time?
 Okay. When you say to decide, right?
 I'm not telling you to talk about it. I'm just saying that it looks like you set it aside.
 You really feel stuck?
 Feel like yelling, "Help!" Or something and then... 
 ...feeling angry that, "God damn it, nobody's helping me."
 You wouldn't want to?
 But wait, whoa, wait a minute. When you say you feel childlike, do you mean sort of silly or do you mean kind of creepy or?
 Big people don't feel this way like?
 But you sure hate having that feeling of wanting somebody to come and pat you on the head?
 Well, there's no [inaudible at 0:33:18.7]... to what I feel?
 Make the rules different.
 That you're stuck on?
 One hell of a lot more than you think?
 What's it like?
 Is it?
 So you have a kind of a dream like quality?
 And sort of... 
 Like if... 
 But some how like you're not really there or?
 Okay.
 Does this feel real?
 All right, so this, is different than that other feeling? And that's, the other one is kind of dreamy? Is it dreamy while you're in it or dreamy afterward, like you might say afterward, "Where the hell have I been for three hours or 15 minutes?"
 Sort of has a kind of an unreal, when this sure feels unreal?
 Lonely?
 Nothing to look forward to?
 Yeah, since it's not knowing where you're going or what you... 
 Yeah.
 Well you've... 
 Oh, so you're saying, "I have some ideas about what I might like to do. I mean I see different things and I go, well maybe I'd kind of like that and then maybe that too." But then you feel like, after you say, "Well, that's sort of appealing, shouldn't do that or I oughtn't to spend my life 40 years that way and that..." [0:37:24.3]
 [Not being real sure?] (ph) [0:37:45.8]
 How do you do that?
 Are you guessing...when you say, "Maybe I talk myself into feeling..."
 Okay, what does it really feel like?
 Okay, so it's different from that but it's a real sense of a kind of fear of doing something [overlapping voices at 0:38:57.6]... 
 Yeah. Can you feel that now?
 Talk about it as you're going there?
 That's only part of it though. It would move or it would change if you said all of it, and if it hasn't then you haven't.
 (chuckling) I'm talking about feelings that, like when you, there's lots of little parts and edges to them, and when you said all of the different edges, not just a few of them, then the feelings shift and move. Okay?
 Yeah, I do say so.
 But when I'm quiet here and you're quiet, then you feel that similar kind of feeling, like sort of scared at a new thing?
 Is it happening now?
 It kind of feels like an impression?
 [You wonder about the future here?] (ph) [0:42:17.8]
 Not now, is what I mean?
 You've got different moods you can meditate [I guess?] (ph)
 You said you wanted [inaudible at 0:43:23.1]... 
 Tired?
 Yeah.
 You mean a feeling like being stopped between us?
 Have they stopped now?
 How did you make that happen?
 Start I think?
 Just happened?
 That's how this feels?
 Oh.
 Yeah?
 You run out of steam or I run out of steam or what?
 So what are you thinking now?
 Okay, you say the conversation runs out of steam, rather than you feel like there isn't anything else you want to say to me?
 [Saying one word?] (ph) [0:46:27.9]
 That's a lot of maybes, [nothing new.] (ph) [0:46:54.5]
 All right, so you're saying, "I'm thinking lots of different kinds of questions and lots of maybes inside."?
 Oh.
 What are those maybes going on in your head?
 Can you give me one of them or two of them?
 No, you're thinking them 16 hours a day and you can't give two examples?
 Like right now, what's the maybe going through your head right now?
 You feel like you got to come up with the right answer?
 What do I think? Like when you... 
 What do you think of you hearing that come out of your mouth?
 Kind of cringe and want to back off and say, "That's not me."
 Feel more up tight?
 Than you were?
 Oh.
 Not even go back on it, grab it as it's coming through.
 You were telling me there's something coming through 16 hours a day.
 Okay. So this, is different, it's not happening here?
 Is that what you're saying?
 And what is going on here?
 Why not?
 Like will there be some direction? Will I supply enough direction so you can move some place? Yeah, no, maybe, what?
 Oh. What were you thinking?
 Just more specifically?
 I'm amazed, huh?
 Like being pushed or ?
 And you got really kind of irritated with my pushing? Nothing more specific damn it. (using weird voice)
 Sometimes life just goes. Let's see. Today's the 9th. You're Burt Witkower (ph). The 16th is next Monday, then let's see. I'll see you here the 16th at 4 o'clock but, okay now, the next week (ph), there's a little box... 
 Oh. So you know where to put this? Okay. What I've done here is, I've put you down for next Monday and I've said that you'll call tomorrow to confirm the appointment on Wednesday.
 Yeah, here because like I didn't put the conference, any number down, I will for you. Okay, so [inaudible 0:53:30.0]... 
 4862 I guess is the [inaudible at 0:53:44.4]... 
 And it was 4, right?
 Bye, bye.
 How was your week?
 Really?
 (inaudible at 0:00:15.2) I guess.
 So how did that go?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Okay.
 Mm-hmm.
 Wow. Mm-hmm.
 You know what's amazing? You were able to think about this in the moment of the heat.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right. So when you're quiet, what was going with your thoughts?
 Wow, that's great.
 You're right. When you're talking and yelling in panic mode you're not really communicating well.
 No it's panic that's communicating.
 Right.
 Right. Okay. So I think that's really good. (inaudible at 0:04:44.5) relationship too.
 Like you're letting out your anger or whatever is going on with your fianc� and he has to come to you. (inaudible at 0:04:53.9) You have different strategies to work on. Like managing your panic mode. [0:04:57.2]
 So now what about the cognitive process that gets you into the panic mode? How is that going?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay. (inaudible at 0:06:15.8) You know your dreams are not real but you feel that it's real. And when you wake up and (inaudible at 0:06:22.0) because you feel like it's real.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Are the dreams the same contact?
 Okay. The varying degrees of the same thing.
 Right. Right. You had three nights in a row.
 Actually very interesting. This is sort of different but the way to treat this is sort of the same thing. People who lived through trauma. They have a mega flashback. But these are people (inaudible at 0:08:02.5) nightmares and they'll wake up from it and they feel like they're reliving it. [0:08:06.8]
 So people with those nightmares, we make up like a narrative of the dream. So you write the narrative of the dream. And the only difference is we change the outcome or the ending.
 So you're recreating the ending. And when you go to sleep at night, you review the end that you created for yourself.
 Because a dream is a creation of your mind.
 So you could almost have a control over it. (inaudible at 0:08:38.1) with your dream as well.
 And it's amazing. You could be (inaudible from 0:08:42.3 to 0:08:46.3). We did this. (inaudible)
 Yeah.
 Right. Because you're changing the outcome. The reason we have a (inaudible at 0:08:52.8) feeling afterwards is because of outcome. Right?
 What happened in the dream. So it's really powerful because you can rewrite the dream. [0:08:58.7]
 How you want it to happen.
 Okay.
 Right.
 So let's talk about what she means to you.
 So why has she so symbolized the hurt?
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 (inaudible at 0:11:08.2) going on here. You're really triggered by emotion.
 Right. (inaudible at 0:11:24.4) You'll retrain yourself that way.
 So now you think of her and then not have a reaction?
 Because what are you telling yourself now? [0:11:30.9]
 Right.
 Right. How would you do that?
 Right.
 Good. Good.
 Yeah. I'm trying to see what the association with the girl is. Do you think about her a lot during the day?
 Used to. Okay.
 Right.
 So do you talk about her with him now or did you in the past?
 Do you still personify her as the ideal (inaudible at 0:14:13.5)?
 Right. Right.
 That's good.
 (inaudible at 0:15:02.3) pedestal. Then you kind of compare it to an ideal. Of course you're going to fail then.
 You're never going to meet up to the standards.
 And (inaudible at 0:15:11.9) But you are not in her shoes. You're making assumptions. (inaudible at 0:15:18.3)
 Right.
 Right. Now when you think about her, what pops into your head automatically?
 Right. How long has it been since she was in the picture?
 A year. Okay. So now you're engaged. There's no need for her to come into the picture.
 So (inaudible at 0:16:17.0) What do you try to do when she comes into your head? Acknowledge it? Like next?
 Right. (inaudible at 0:16:28.7)
 So basically you're acknowledging that it pops into your head. Okay acknowledge it. Like next thought.
 Because thoughts, you can have a thought. Right, that's natural.
 Like you're in a fight against it you just get more stressed out and worked up. So just acknowledge it. (inaudible at 0:16:49.3) Hold on. Next one. Next one.
 (inaudible at 0:16:53.6) your thoughts that way.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. So what changed in you?
 Mm-hmm.
 Right, right. And it's more based on reality.
 All those fairy tales. (Laughing — inaudible conversation at 0:18:52.5)
 Right. Right.
 Right. Well rewrite the dream.
 Let's do an example.
 Mm-hmm.
 Okay. That was the dream. So how could we rewrite that dream? [0:20:40.6]
 (inaudible) You're rewriting it. It's your dream.
 Okay.
 Write her in and then change it.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 (inaudible at 0:21:48.0)
 We're cutting off the ties with your negative mind right? (inaudible at 0:21:56.3)
 (inaudible at 0:22:22.7)
 Right.
 Okay. So that could be one. There are so many different things too. (inaudible at 0:22:53.4) He brings her and your fianc� says, "This is not appropriate." And he asks her to leave. And she comes to you like, "I'm really sorry. I just sincerely congratulate you guys. I give you a million dollars and leave you guys to be happy." (Laughter)
(inaudible at 0:23:08.2) This is your dream. (inaudible) But you could do different things that makes you feel okay. (inaudible at 0:23:17.7) Sort of cut the tie. [0:23:22.1]
 (inaudible at 0:23:26.6) past. I'm moving on. You moving on kind of thing.
 Right.
 Right. And you could even imagine her turning around and walking away with somebody else. (inaudible at 0:24:10.7) She's walking away from your life. That's the past.
 Turning around walking away. She could be walking with somebody else. She's gone. She's gone to her life. [0:24:21.5]
 Yeah. Are you having this dream three nights in a row? Is it all the time you're having these dreams? Like was it just unique to this week?
 (inaudible at 0:24:50.5) If you're not having it everyday. If it's not a habitual thing, don't worry about it. But this is something you can do if it ever happens.
 If it ever happens you can just wake up and rewrite the dream. (inaudible at 0:25:04.7) imageries in your head.
 But you don't have to practice every night or anything like that.
 Right. So tell me like how many times you went up to that cliff. You said there was a decrease from before to now?
 How would you classify it? [0:25:34.5]
 Wow. Okay.
 Okay.
 That's great.
 Even then you were able to stop it a little, right?
 Right. Right.
 Okay. So that's good. (inaudible at 0:26:33.3)
 Well that's excellent.
 I'm really glad.
 So if you're used to doing certain things for so long, like you're learning a new behavior or a new way of thinking which is really great and powerful, what happens is then you kind of let go—things get better which is great. And you kind of let go of the new way of thinking and the old way kind of creeps up on you.
 It's good to think of ways—it's good to think of obstacles. What will be the time when the old way of thinking will kind of creep up? Prepare for it ahead of time so that you know when to expect it.
 Great, yeah.
 Okay.
 What do you do? Like what's your job? [0:28:51.1]
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Oh my gosh. It's not good. It's not good.
 Okay so what kind of criticism is she giving you? Is it your work? Got to do better or - ?
 How long have you been working there?
 And how do other people cope with her?
 Oh okay.
 Okay.
 How are you able to not, up to now, for six months?
 Right.
 Right. Right.
 Okay.
 Okay I think you're right. You have to be alert to respond back to what she's saying. So I think (inaudible at 0:33:21.1) concentration.
 (inaudible at 0:33:23.5) like Oh my God. (Laughing) I think the fact that you're losing your boss too that has probably been tough on you. [0:33:31.2]
 But that means they're going to have to hire somebody.
 Right. I think that by acknowledging that it's her. And not take it personally.
 Right. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah. Okay. And I feel like that's a tough one. Because it's not (inaudible at 0:34:28.1). It's a power difference.
 So it's not like you talk about it. You kind of have to suck it up and deal with it. I think the best is (inaudible at 0:34:40.4). (inaudible) talking about it. After hours you don't feel good about it.
 So we could talk about (inaudible at 0:34:49.6 to 0:34:53.4). Disappointment. Annoyance.
 Like frustration.
 Because I think anybody in that situation would feel that way. Right?
 But then you don't want to get panicky.
 When you're really anxious and you're really depressed.
 So do you want to learn how to manage that?
 (inaudible at 0:35:08.0)
 Yeah.
 Right. And what happens if you tear up and stuff? Does she get (inaudible at 0:35:49.5)?
 Or does it bother her at all?
 How often does this happen? The criticisms?
 Right. Right. I agree. But (inaudible at 0:36:37.7) negative emotions. It could be frustrated. It could be annoyed. It could be disturbed. It could be bothered.
 But let's not get to the (inaudible at 0:36:44.3) depression.
 You need to kind of remind yourself all the time it's her. (inaudible at 0:36:50.0) imperfections. I'm not like that. I can't do this perfectly. I'll never be able to live up to her standards.
 Even if you're perfect she'll find ways to criticize you.
 Yeah. Kind of always bring that to her.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 And you're not a perfect human being. There is no way to be perfect. Remind yourself you ain't perfect and that's okay.
 It's okay. Because (inaudible at 0:37:30.7). She's not going to be happy with anybody.
 Yeah. (inaudible at 0:37:44.2) It's like hard to remove yourself from that.
 So I think before going in, remind yourself of that.
 Remind yourself of that again. And that helps. A lot actually. Every job you work with people who could be like that.
 (inaudible at 0:38:04.2)
 Now before I go in I tell myself (inaudible at 0:38:09.5). It's nothing personal. It's really not. If she's in a good mood, she's in a good mood. If she's not then (inaudible at 0:38:15.1).
 I remind myself of that before going in.
 I got in a better mental state.
 (inaudible at 0:38:22.9) again.
 Yeah of course.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. So (inaudible at 0:38:48.4) this week.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Yeah. If you have a dream, rewrite the dream. And then walking away.
 Yeah. Before and after the meeting. How should I phrase this? Before and after the meeting think of - -
 No.
 Right. Find something wrong.
 I think in her way she thinks she's being helpful.
 When you say it's (inaudible at 0:40:14.3).
 Right. Which is good — (inaudible at 0:40:23.0) In her way. So no matter what you do, she'll find a way to say something is wrong. [0:40:28.8]
 So it's really not about you.
 Yeah.
 It's nothing personal to you. (inaudible at 0:40:38.1) the same thing.
 In short, it's not you. It's her.
 Yeah. Even though it's cute it'll help you (inaudible at 0:40:38.5) these things. Yeah.
 Yeah. Just try not. And even if you go over the cliff, try the same skills. You need to practice these things.
 Right. And that's perfectly good. But when you get there you have tools to help you with it.
 Oh yeah. I was going to show you. So basically week after week is to chart symptom distress and to chart your interpersonal relations. And we track how well you do each session. So I'll actually show you how you're doing.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 No problem. All right. And I will see you next week. Have a good one. [0:42:13.2]
 I'm sorry. 
 Good. 
 Huh.
 Right. 
 Yeah. 
 Uh huh. 
 I see. 
 Yeah. 
 Mm hmm. 
 Mm hmm. 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah. [0:01:27.3]
 Yeah. It sounds like um it could be great if it came through. 
 Is this kind of apathy? 
 Yeah. [0:02:48.3]
 Right. 
 Yeah. (pause) Like you're so overwhelmed it's hard to fight being overwhelmed to get things done. 
 Yeah. [0:04:04.0]
 Mm hmm. 
 Mm hmm. [0:06:40.1]
 Mm hmm. [0:08:31.8]
 Sorry, now what was that?
 Oh. 
 Yeah. [0:12:27.9]
 Mm hmm, yeah. [0:13:43.5]
 Mm hmm. [0:15:04.5]
 Mm hmm. [0:16:26.5]
 And you're thinking about it. 
 I think it's hard for you to talk about and feel comfortable and like you have a right to um (pause) like express your frustration about it. [0:17:43.3]
 I see. [0:19:07.6] To know whether you should keep hoping. 
 Or not. 
 I'm going to review the forms and, uh, talk to you.  So, how are you doing today?
 What is going on?
 Yes.  Yes, uh, we started, yes, the Savella.
 Yes.
 He did?
 All right.  So you, you used the first day —
 And when, you started yesterday, a couple of days ago?
 Right.  How is it going with it?
 Yes.
 Was it Lyrica?
 Lyrica.
 Right.
 Right.  It's a, it's a treatment for fibromyalgia.  It's, uh, Savella.
 And, uh, you have to do the starter kit.
 And it's four weeks the starter kit, is that right?
 But, but what we are doing for your bipolar disorder is still the same?
 Is that right?
 Yes.
 More depressed?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Depression.
 When, when you say depressed, I mean —
 Okay.
 Um—hum.
 Good.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.  Are you eating more?
 Just not active?
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Have you been taking your meds every day?
 Good.
 Okay.  And do you, uh —
 Right.  And you know that bipolar has these two components, the mania and the depression and sometimes when you get older, you would have more depressive episodes.
 You read that.  Okay.
 Right.
 And you, and you have been depressed for more, would you say like more than —
 For three months now.  Okay.
 Right.  Right.
 For therapy.
 How did the sessions —
 How, how did the sessions go?
 Okay.  How is your sleep going?  Right now, you, do you take Lunesta?
 Yeah.
 Uh —
 Temazepam.
 So, temazepam has worked for sleep —
 Better than, uh —
 So you're not sleeping well still?
 A little bit better with temazepam but not that —
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 And you are, you still take the Paxil?
 Sixty mg pill.
 And then the —
 The, the, the Topamax.
 Of the 100 mg?
 Okay.  So you take, you take Paxil 30 in the morning and then another 30 at night?
 Okay.
 Right.
 Have you been smoking any marijuana?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Did you try Seroquel XR?
 Seroquel?  It's, it's a, it's a medication that was approved recently for, uh, bipolar depression.
 Okay.  So what, what I think we can do, because we are trying several things.  I would think that if we add Seroquel XR 300 mg at bedtime, maybe three or four hours before your bedtime, that might help your bipolar depression and might help you sleep too.
 If you take it, let's say if you wake up, uh, at 6:00 in the morning, if you take it at 6:00 in the evening, the, the, the, the peak of it will, will be when you're asleep.  So I mean most, the sedation will go while you're asleep.  Then when you wake up, you are kind of off this part of the medication, and it might help sleep too, uh, but because we have been trying.  You have been on the Topamax for some time.  You have been on the Paxil for some time.  We didn't make any changes like that.
 Right.
 Right.
 You know, you are right.  I mean for the next few sessions, you have been more depressed than —
 Than manic.
 Right.
 No.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Right.
 Have you been suicidal?
 Okay.
 But are you still excited —
 Are you still excited about going to [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Okay, good.
 Looking forward to it too?
 Is it your first time to [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Six years.
 Yeah.  So that by itself is, um, a good thing.
 And you are a grandma.
 Very good.
 Okay.
 Are you excited about the grandkids?
 Good.
 Of course.  Good.  So you still have things to look forward to.  So, how about this?  What I'm going to do, uh, [PATIENT NAME] is, uh, give you, give you the trial of the Seroquel XR 300 mg.
 Yeah.  It shouldn't, it should not, yeah, you can still take the Savella.  It's, it's, that's for fibromyalgia.  That's something different, but let's do in addition or, in, in addition to what you are on now, let's do the Seroquel XR.  If you, just to let you know, if you notice that you are sedated or started to have any weight gain with it, I know that you don't like weight gain.
 Right, but you are on Topamax.  So, the good thing, the Topamax can balance this.
 The activity.
 To, to continue with, you need to be physically active and you have to watch your diet.
 But you are —
 Are you physically —
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Did it go well?
 Right.
 Who's, who's your primary doctor now?
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 Right.
 Good.
 When you, when you are depressed, you go through this.  What you are seeing is [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.
 Yes, for the Seroquel, just write your name here, sign here.
 Yeah, write your name and sign.
 Yes, please.  We want to thank you very much today.  I think you helped us a lot to understand what's going on with bipolar because I mean really that, that's important.
 I know.
 Yes.
 Oh.  Is he going to be out of jail?
 That will put you under a lot of stress too.
 Did they give you the Order of Protection?
 Good.  Let's check your weight.
 So your weight today is 185.
 You gained three pounds over, but over six months.  You gained three pounds over six months, so.  Yeah.  Okay, let's, let's do this.  I'm going to give you samples of the Seroquel XR 300 mg at bedtime.  Use it for a month and then, uh, I'll see you again in about eight weeks or so.  Stay in touch with your case manager.
 Why not?
 Who is your case manager?
 Um—hum.  I'll talk to [NAME OTHER] too.
 I think that's really important especially around the time that, uh, this person is going to be out of prison, so you wouldn't be kind of by yourself.  Um —
 You still have your boyfriend.
 Isn't that right?
 Oh, so you have good news here.  You have good news.  You are keeping the good news till the end.  [LAUGHING].  So, do you have a date for the marriage?
 So, did you say yes or no?
 So you said yes.  Okay, so that's a good story.
 What, what —
 How long have you been together?
 Three.  So that's good enough.  Do you know him enough to get married?
 Okay.  So he's, he's, he's supportive.  Okay.
 Is he going, is he going to [DEIDENTIFIED] with you to be with —
 You are you going to be by yourself.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Problems.
 Right.
 Do you go to the river?
 Good.  Good.  How often do you go with your boat?
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 All right.  Well, you had a chance today.  All right?  Would you, uh, would you be willing to start it and let's, let's go to [NAME OTHER]'s office.
 It should work on the bipolar depression.  That's, that's, that's [INAUDIBLE] and may help you sleep at night.
 So that, that's, that's what we are hoping for.
 So, that, that's what we are, what we are hoping for.  If you notice any side effects with it, just let me know.  Call us and then we'll take care of it, but I think it's time to make some changes.  You have been depressed for some time, and we kept the same regime for some time.  So, I think —
 No, no.  We'll, we'll keep, if you respond well to the Seroquel, we may take you off the other, like the [INAUDIBLE] and one of the others, but —
 That's why —
 I, I know because that's why you, you, you like the, you like the Topamax for some time.  It's kept your weight and —
 Yeah.
 Right and I think you need to go back to physical activities and you need to really get back to exercise.  You have to.
 Yeah.
 If you, if your, your pain is going to go down, definitely you are going to do more.  I mean I think that's, uh, I mean if we combine —
 It's not experimental.  It's been approved.
 It's new.
 Well, you have been very helpful today.  Thank you for agreeing to do this, thank you very much.
 Give this, give this to [NAME OTHER] and she needs to make an appointment.
 Thank you.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
 Poor guy.
 Poor guy.
 The vet, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Good.
 Are they?
 Oh.
 I see.
 Gotcha.
 Right.
 (Laughing.)
 I don't think you mentioned this about Dad. He hadn't seemed good when you were down there?
 What's the matter?
 Wow.
 Um-hum.
 Recovery?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Good.
 That must be a big relief.
 (Laughing.) Good for him.
 Um-hum. I bet she does. [00:07:06]
 Oh, congratulations.
 Right.
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 (inaudible.)
 Good.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 I see.
 Um-hum.
 (inaudible.)
 I see.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 I think you mentioned that the caterer left the group but is still willing to cater the lunch (inaudible).
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Right.
 That's right. Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yep
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 I agree, yeah. Like two closings a month?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 (inaudible) a couple more.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yep.
 Right.
 Bigger deals for you.
 Um-hum, yeah.
 Yeah. [00:19:02]
 Your stepsister and brother?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 About?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Has she saved enough - saved up enough to have a shot at a repayment plan?
 (inaudible)?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 (inaudible.)
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 What's Lawyer of the Day?
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Probably you're trying to stay focused on what you can do and the good things that are happening, but there's this kind of undertow, you know, all you have to catch up on and all that could go wrong and things like that.
 At E&G;?
 Uh-huh.
 Wow. [00:27:05]
 I see.
 Okay. [00:28:57]
 Oh, I see.
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Got it.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 You mean selling your place?
 Right. So in that case, you would be able to continue collecting rent from a tenant who has not paid the mortgage on it until it sells? Is that -
 Right.
 Yeah, he wants to help.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 It's gonna be a lot to put down.
 Is it hard to think about anything else? Not that there's anything wrong with thinking about all this, but I couldn't imagine. Your mind just sort of chews away at this all the time. Like - [00:36:15]
 Here's what's coming through here. Here's what could come through there. I need this. Where's that gonna come from? Am I gonna get help here? What's gonna happen with this? What's Jess gonna do? Is Jess gonna want to - I - it just sounds - the way you're talking, I could imagine that you're kind of like chewing on this financial stuff all the time, and it's hard to get any kind of a break from it.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 (inaudible.)
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 (inaudible) I should have brought this up in the beginning, but it occurred to me at like - I've got some scheduling conflicts the next couple of Fridays that we should sort out.
 (Laughing.)
 I think you mentioned - you mentioned it.
 Good.
 Right.
 Good.
 Okay. Let's see. So (pause). I guess what I thought would be the - so the next two Fridays I have conflicts.
 (Chuckle.) Conflicts.
 Do you? Yeah? Probably pretty (laughing).
 (Laughing.) Let's see. I think next week is probably going to be tough to reschedule. My thought would be that just meet once next week. And then the following week, I can meet early on Thursday or early on Wednesday if either -
 Next week, I can't do Thursday at the moment. If something changes, if I get a cancellation, I'll let you know.
 But otherwise, I'm just completely booked up Wednesday and Thursday.
 Next week is the 9th.
 The following week, I could do 7:00 on Thursday morning.
 Yeah.
 Okay. Good.
 Change the (inaudible)?
 Yeah. You change it, it will ask you if you want to change all of them or just the one?
 And thanks very much.
 So I think your strategy for programming the phone is brilliant to remind you about appointments.
 Not at all.  Actually -
 Yours is one of the thinner ones for someone who's been here as long.  Lots of other people's have been thinned down -
 So they can put on microfilm, so.  No, this isn't bad at all.
 And it has to do with the agency generates paperwork.  I mean, as you know, there's so much oversight now of medicine and especially mental health, and some of the problems locally, and so there's a lot.  To me it's repetitive.  Sometimes I'll fill out what seems like the same form three or four times for the same visit.  But, you know, hopefully it's helping somewhere.  But don't, don't think that the paper means anything.  Don't worry about that.  So well, how have you been?
 Yeah.
 I was thinking of you recently.  My cat got diagnosed with severe hyperthyroidism.
 She had lost a lot weight, um, and she needs to start taking medication.  Um, so sometimes they do develop a condition pretty quickly.  And, uh, yours, I think, had like a dental abscess or problem, right?
 It's hard.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Would you consider a new addition to the family?  There's nothing like a kitten to perk everybody up.
 Yeah.
 I wonder if there's a setting where you could test drive?  You know, like if there is, like if there were a situation where somebody -
 Might have them up for adoption, and maybe they could bring it over and see how they do.
 Yeah.
 And I can see why.  You know, you want to be fair to the cat that's left.  But the cat that's left, may feel kind of like how you do, like, "Oh, I miss the company," you know.
 Not that anybody fills the shoes, but you know.
 Ah.
 They're so cute.
 Ah.
 Yeah.
 Isn't that amazing how they sometimes will do that?
 [LAUGHING].
 Oh.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 He told you what he thought about that.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 [LAUGHING].
 You know, they're amazing.
 Well since you have friends in [DEIDENTIFIED], you know, I bet there's someone who's willing to bring one over, and just see how they do.  You know?
 And it takes pressure off you, too, to say, "You know, if it's not this one, we'll probably find another one."  You know, from somewhere.  You know, this is the right way to go about it.
 Ah.
 Ah.
 Ah.  They're such good company.  I have a friend whose dogs, um, she live down in Texas, her dogs got loose, and um, got into a chicken coop.
 And a farmer shot them both.
 One died.  The other one survived.  It's been a difficult course.  But she just got a puppy and they both just really brightened up.
 So, you know, the new dog was, uh, the older dog was very receptive to, you know, it's like the cheerfulness of having a baby around when, you know, someone in the family has died, or whatever.  But, you know, you could probably test drive.  [LAUGHING].  You know?
 Because I can tell there's something missing.  Yeah.  I can tell you feel -
 Down.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  And that's so sad.  Yeah.
 Ah.
 Oh, poor baby.
 Ah.
 Yeah.
 Poor baby.
 Ah.
 Oh.
 He might be deaf, too.  I don't know, if he didn't respond to noise.
 Oh.  Okay.
 So it can at least do that.
 Oh.  Good.  Well I'm glad somebody is taking care of him.  Do you ever watch the Cold Case series?
 Yeah.  Don't you love the cats?
 I love the cats.
 Tripod and Cyclops.  [LAUGHING].  That's what one boyfriend called them.  He didn't last long.
 Exactly.
 And then, you know, they would, they would, you know, give feedback, possibly about, you know, it might have been possible to ask more in this area about depression, or whatever.  Or follow up on such and such, you know, but, uh -
 But they cannot release the information to anybody else at all.
 You might want to talk about that.  Exactly.  Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Do you ever feel like there's sort of a seasonal piece to it, too?  Like you're usually more down in the winter, or at the change of seasons, or it could be any time?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  And this could be more severe than some other bereavement that you've had.  Because you've lost two pets before, right.  And this one seems like it's really get, hard to, you know, I'm saying move on with the bereavement process.
 Not that you get over -
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And it sounds like she had a pretty good 10 years.  That's a pretty good track records.  But -
 Ah.
 Ah.  She had a bad infection, it sounds like.  Just a very, maybe more widespread than the doctor recognized initially.  I don't know.
 That's sad.
 I think you did everything you could.  It sounds like that.  You know?
 Everything that a person knows how to do.  But, yeah, I am hearing that this is really hanging over you.  Yeah.  Um -
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  I think maybe at least the medicine that you're taking, those are pretty robust doses.  But -
 Okay.
 [LAUGHING].
 Oh.  I'm so glad that you said something.  I had no idea.
 And different generic manufacturers will sometimes manufacture different, you know, a different color, whatever.  Uh, well I was thinking anyway, given that you're on the Zoloft at 200, um, and the Wellbutrin, it's the sustained release, you've been taking 300 for a long time, and now I know you didn't add the 100 -
 So at least you told me.  And that's been a while.
 Because I suggested adding that a while ago.
 Oh.  Oh I wish you'd told me sooner.
 But, um, what's worth doing anyway, [PATIENT NAME], is changing from the SR to the XL.  I was just talking with somebody else about this.  It's generic now, so it should be just as inexpensive, I hope.  Um, and it's a more extended release.  It's a smaller pill.  To my knowledge, they're always white, for one thing, dye free.
 Um, and um, with that, you can take two or three of the 150s a day.  Because it's longer extended release, there's less risk of lowering the seizure threshold, which was one of the original concerns about the short-acting Wellbutrin.  So people will sometimes take 450.  And with the SR, I had suggested going up to 400, which was thought to be more or less the maximal dose of that.  But if I wrote for the XL for you what you could do is, I could write for three a day, and then you could start with two, and then you can see.  Because Wellbutrin XL 300 do better by me than -
 The SR 150, which might have been metabolized faster by your system, or out of your system faster.  If you say, "Well, it's more of the same," then you could just add the third.  And you don't have to pay for an extra prescription, or additional pill, or anything.
 Yeah.
 It, with  your particular metabolism it might.  Yeah.
 And even with the XL, you could take that twice a day, still.
 You know, if you're, if you might be someone who someone who -
 Exactly.  Exactly.  It's finding that balance with where it's helping give some energy and possibly, like if you have concerns with focus and concentration, you know, if it's helping with that, as well, um, but not interfering with your sleep.
 So yeah.  Why don't we try the XLs, up to three a day.  And that way you don't have to worry about adding another ugly, [LAUGHING], since the third one might something unpalatable.
 You're kidding.  I wonder why they do that?
 Oh, yeah.
 I can always find a home for them, because I mean, I do, uh -
 Wow.
 Wow.
 That's too bad.  I have never heard that report.
 Wow.
 Well it's really helpful to hear, too.  Because, you know, unless I have direct experience, I wouldn't even know.  But that that could be a turn-off to somebody, it's important to know.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 I hadn't thought about that.
 Yeah.  Okay.
 Sure.  Exactly.  And what's nice about the XL, is, you know, if you want to add the third, you can add the third, you know, that's an approved dose.  But you may get more mileage just out of the two every day.  And that way you get a little extra from every prescription -
 To tide you over, and that's okay, too.  So does, do you feel comfortable starting there.  I have other ideas, too, with what we could add, if we, you know, if it's, uh -
 That doesn't pan out.
 I know that historically, yeah.  Yeah.  Okay, that sounds like the way to go for now.  Absolutely.
 It's a more complicated bereavement.
 You are grieving, but there's some strong elements of the depression recurring, too.  Yeah.  All right.  Well we'll just, uh -
 Yeah.  Yeah.
 And you and I have worked together for a long time.
 And I haven't seen you this down in a very, very long time.
 So there are brighter days ahead.  You're always going to miss the one you lost.  Um, but you'll cherish that memory and you'll find new ones to love, and, that you, especially something so unexpected, that take a lot of getting used to.
 Yeah.
 She had a good life, huh?  I think, you know -
 The part of her life with you is better than most cats ever dream of.  [LAUGHING].
 Yeah.
 I bet she loved watching you two, also.
 You know, that's the funny thing, too.  Cats have a certain spectator ness about them, so even if you were paying attention to the other one, they say, "Well that's really interesting."
 [LAUGHING].
 Was he a little jealous?
 Yeah.  Rival for your affection.
 Oh, they're so, I love it when they talk.
 [LAUGHING].
 Yeah.  Yes.  That's good parenting training, you know.  [LAUGHING].
 They are amazing.
 Mine can just be, uh, looking like she's napping on the counter, and then I'll go to walk by, and she'll stick out her paw.
 Like, "What's the password?"  You know, like, uh, "You're not going to get away without paying attention to me.  Even if I'm sleeping, I want you to pay attention to me."
 Really funny.
 They're a hoot.
 Oh, that is, I have to admit -
 That's a little unusual.
 [LAUGHING].
 That is a hoot.
 Yeah.
 Oh, they, they're probably a lot smarter than people are.
 I mean, who caused pollution, you know?  Probably not animals.  [LAUGHING].
 Oh, wow.
 Oh.
 Ah, yeah.
 I can understand that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  I can certainly understand that, too.  So I'll be writing for the Wellbutrin XL three daily.  All right, start with two, just see.  Maybe this sits better, make sure your sleep is okay.  So forth and so on.  You know, if you feel like you need the additional, it's there.  If not, you're just a little bit ahead for next month.
 Do you want to make a follow up appointment for the usual time?
 Yeah.  And then if you decide you want to come back sooner, just call [NAME OTHER].  It's all right, we've got some room to work with.  So that's good.  All right.  Look those over.  See if it makes, makes sense.  I want to get your pharmacist's attention that it's not the exact same thing.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Should it be 60?
 Oh, okay.
 [INAUDIBLE] take twice a day.  All right, got you.
 Oh, that's right.  Yep, as of the beginning of the year, that's right.  Thank you.
 They can be sometimes.  Even for generics if the person doesn't have, um, you know, a payment plan or coverage.  Yeah.  So you know, I do recycle medications.  Even samples where a place that I work are throwing them out, because they consider them expired, you know, when it gets that month.  You know, and if people say they can't get their medication, I'll say, you know, "This one is about to go."  You know, in, and, it's available.  You know, I think if you keep them in a cool, dry place they stay good for a while.  Um, so sometimes people make that option.
 Yeah.  Yeah.
 Which must mean that your, um, pharmacy changed generic manufacturers.
 It's really strange.  One time, um, I should actually tell you since you're on, uh, generic Zoloft.  One time I had a patient who really noticed a big difference between one kind of generic Zoloft and another kind.
 And she remembered when and where she got the one that worked better.  But, of course, it didn't stick on her mind what was the name of the company.  Whoever looks at that anyway.
 But sometimes it's on the bottle, but unless you happen to keep the bottle.  It turned out that it was actually her prescription coverage company that was able to track down the one that was good, and then find another pharmacy that had that same kind now, that was close to where she lived -
 Which was amazing.  Because I think her pharmacy changed -
 Providers as well, and then she just said, "It just doesn't work as well."  You know, and generics can vary by as much as 20% from the original in terms of potency.  So it could be 20% more or 20% less than the original brand, and then if you're changing generics, that could mean a 40% difference, if you went from one that was 20% less to one that was 20% more than the original.
 Stronger or less than the brand had been.  Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  So I do think, though, for good business practices they try to get it as close as possible to the original brand name, but I guess some, uh, some are easier, some types of chemicals are easier to do that with than others, or some types of molecules.
 Yeah.  And, actually believe it or not, the other one I hear it the most about is Wellbutrin, bupropion, or Budeprion.  But there can be a big variability.
 So it certainly is, looking at, you know, what you, the generic extended release that your pharmacy carries -
 It may just go a, a lot more of a long way than the SR.  So.
 Yeah.  Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  So maybe, you know, once we, once we are in a -
 Wellbutrin situation, we can also look at the Zoloft situation, and see if that's, you know.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh, it can make a difference.
 Yeah, because I definitely ran across that with another patient.
 Yeah.  So -
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's got to be a different generic.  Yeah.  And some of them are round.  Some of the Zolofts I know are round.  Yeah.
 That's worth looking at, too.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And if the brand changed, you know, well you might not be getting the support you were used to getting from your medication.  It's a possibility.
 Yeah.
 All right.  So we've got some things we can follow up on then.
 Yeah.  Try to get back to some -
 Yeah.  I'm glad.  I'm really glad you made it in.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Oh, and it's not counting against you or anything.
 You're, you're a good, you know, um -
 It was in the back of your mind.  Yeah.
 Well now you're smart to put it into your phone.  Yeah.  I'm glad you came when you did.  You know I appreciate it, it's, you know, it's the last part of the day, we took a little bit of extra time.  I'm glad we had it -
 Because, you know, I think we needed to get into some real detail on this, but I appreciate you being very patient about that.  Yeah.
 All right.  Well thanks again for participating.  I'll let you know what results I might be able to share, and -
 Yeah.  I think they're going to have, you know, like, feedback about communication and whatever, so, yeah.
 Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah, if you, there's also a, and I'm sure, if you ever want to participate, it's totally up to you.  And you can even decide later.  If you wanted to participate in the follow-up study.  Like sometimes they'll pay.  You know, maybe one area I can tell you of, of interest, especially to pharmaceutical companies, is treatment-resistant depression.  You know, where someone is, you know, they've been treated for a while.  Maybe their medication isn't working as well, or if they need to make a change or add something.  So -
 Yeah.  There's a place here where you can put your contact info.
 Yeah.  Right there, it says "Additionally," by checking this box, then you could, uh, contact with additional questions and if you choose to participate in follow up meetings, you would be paid a fee in connection with, um, the study.  So -
 Yeah.  If you would prefer e-mail or telephone, you can put that information down.
 Sometimes a source of a little extra income is helpful.
 Yeah.  Good.
 Ah.  Okay.
 So -
 Oh, I'm glad you made it.  The important thing is, you know, and, and this way we got a little extra time.
 And it sounds like we probably needed it actually.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's pos, that could be a part of the picture, you know?
 It could be a piece of the puzzle.
 Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah, and it's really because patients tell me that I know there is a difference, you know.
 And most of the time they are pretty close, but a few I've been hearing, and you know, and in my particular field, there can be big differences.
 And he's probably just trying to -
 Yeah, for the economy, and another generic manufacturer comes along and says, "Hey, I'll sell you for, you know, $5 less a month," or whatever.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Yeah.  There might have been some ingredient that just didn't agree with you, or -
 Yeah.
 I'm glad you talked to your doctor about it.  Yeah, anything that doesn't seem right, you know, we can get to the bottom of.
 Huh.
 You reacted to something.
 Oh, it's good to see you.  Brighter days ahead.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you can leave that for [NAME OTHER] if you want her to contact you, or give her a call.
 Yeah, either way.
 Okay.  Good to see you.  [INAUDIBLE].
 Bye-bye.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 And you get to keep that.  So you were saying, what's up with court?
 Okay.
 So you asked your probation or parole officer -
 Your lawyer to have him ask the court.
 Yeah.
 Okay.  All right.
 To go get drug tested.
 Uh-huh.
 So what did you plead guilty to?
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Well, I know Michael Phelps might be getting one of those, too, these days.  You see the picture of him doing the bong?
 Yeah, that cost him $5 million.
 Yeah, but he didn't get caught except by someone with a camera there, I suppose.  But, uh, it's the thought that counts.  Um, well, they probably want some kind of a signature on some paper.
 Why?
 Really?  Well -
 Well, but the, you can measure any level.  The cocaine should be out in about 3 days.
 Okay.  Uh -
 Marijuana, if you get a quantitative level, hopefully, you can measure and watch it go down.
 Well, let's see what you got.
 It, best way, are you still with Cigna?
 With Cigna Insurance then -
 Okay.
 Okay.  Does that affect that at all or -
 Okay.  Yeah, drug evaluation -
 Well, there are different ideas of what the court thinks is a drug evaluation.  Um, I mean like, for the DUI program, we have a sort of comprehensive drug evaluation legal kind of form needs, go through.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 You say, "Slip out."  What do you mean by that?
 Uh, I'm glad you're sober.  That's positive.
 Day 2 of sobriety.  Yeah.  Okay.  How's your mood doing?
 Is it up and down?
 Tough day at [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Now, you still on Seroquel?
 What are you taking now?
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  So you get 150 of Lyrica at night and Effexor, you take 300 in the morning?
 Right?
 Samples of what, Effexor?
 Oh, Lyrica.  Okay.  And how about Seroquel, you're not taking that at all?
 For the bipolar stuff?  No.
 Oh, they're always investigating stuff, bunch of crap.  [LAUGHING].
 Um -
 Like weight gain.
 Diabetes, cholesterol increases or cataracts.
 Huh -
 Yeah, that's kind of -
 Um-hum.
 When did you stop the Seroquel?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Hop on the scales; see what you weigh.
 One seventy.  Okay.  Um-hum.  Well, how are you doing otherwise?
 Okay.  Still smoking cigarettes?
 How much?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 That's good.
 Going to graduate.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Well, you've tried a number of medicines.  How do you feel that this present combination is working for you?
 Feel okay with it?
 Getting some sleep?
 Um-hum.  So going to give up the cocaine?
 Yeah.
 Mixing it with what?
 Uh-huh.
 Just some, uh, juiced up weed there, huh?
 Uh-huh.
 Why don't you ride an elevator instead?
 No.  It's like up and down the wall.  A button is down, you know, if we put electrodes in your brain in the right spot, we can just press the buttons and give you the same feelings.
 You'd like that, huh?  Uh -
 Well, you know, in this drug evaluation, it started out by saying, "This patient has, uh, been using cocaine and marijuana on a fairly regular basis the past couple of years.  She is sober 2 days now."
 Well, you know -
 So do you think you'd use cocaine, marijuana the rest of your life?
 Okay.
 So what do you think would change?
 Huh.
 Um-hum.  Like, uh, some people, they say they, uh, like smoking.  They don't want to give it up and then they say, "Oh, by the way, can you check me for my cholesterol?  Make sure there's not side effects on these, uh, medicines or something."  So how about the side effects from your smoking?
 Um-hum.
 Sort of.
 Tough decision.
 Um-hum.
 Well, there is a lot of hazards to doing drugs.
 Um-hum.  Are you willing to take a urine drug screen at some point?
 Well, it'd be nice to get another one.  What you should do is, uh, you should get a urine drug screen and make it a quantitative one for marijuana.  So let's say, urine drug screen with, uh, quantitative -
 [LAUGHING].  Well, the whole point is then they'll say, well, she's clean for 2 days, she's just doing this until the court thing is over, then she wants to smoke again.  See, that doesn't look good.  It's like her motivation to stop using is very tenuous at best.  She's just doing it to placate the court, even though she realizes there's a problem.  That's why she said put it in.
 I know, but you're trying to say you need daddy to watch you.
 Um-hum.  Well, so they weren't going to be drug testing you?
 Okay.  So let me just figure out what they are saying.  So what do you have to do, do you have to do it on the swab?
 "Community service," anyway; paying fine.  Hang on to that.  Um, "Presence waived."  Uh, "Release if in full compliance of the court's order."
 Oh, I guess it means you don't have to come back.
 Yeah.  "Must pay $100.00 lab fee."
 Lab fee for what?
 Oh.  "And $200.00 statutory [INAUDIBLE]."
 Have to?
 Well, it doesn't look like much.  Other than, within 45 days your lawyer has to file a written drug evaluation.
 It's going to make you look like you like to use marijuana and cocaine.  And right now as it stands, been using marijuana for more than 2 years as a daily user and uses cocaine episodically when she can get it.  Likes the combination of the 2, feels that it helps her, makes her feel better and doesn't really want to quit.  She's not compliant with some of her other psychiatric medicines, takes herself on and off.
 Um, but you're doing all right with the Lyrica and the Effexor now and your mood is a little more stable.  You do seem more stable, so that's good.
 Self injury urges.  How are you controlling that?
 Okay.
 Sleeping and drugs.  Well, at least you're controlling them.
 Stealing -
 And sex.
 What are you stealing?
 What were you stealing?
 Hum?
 Whatever, like, from where?
 Like clothing or something?
 You know, you get arrested for shoplifting or something -
 And then you really, you'll just -
 Start looking -
 Like, uh -
 Yeah?
 You'll start looking, what, this is Class C misdemeanor.
 Which one was that, the paraphernalia?
 That's Class A?
 Really?
 I wonder why?
 Yeah, but what if you just have a pipe?
 So use the old nose to tell, huh?
 Huh.  I remember they used to sell that stuff at [DEIDENTIFIED].  Is that illegal now?
 Are those shops legal or were they banned in the state?
 Only.  Okay.  Got you.
 So a head shop, huh?
 They sell bongs for tobacco?
 Gas masks.  Life's a gas, huh?  And why do you want to injust, ingest such substances?
 Yeah?
 Do you like -
 The effects?
 How does it feel like when you're blown out of your mind?
 I had -
 A few people today that talked about the other dimension, so, uh, it's getting popular.
 Okay.  We're going to keep you on the Effexor and the Lyrica.  Now, did you ever take that Chantix?
 Yeah, that's the old famous line like, you know, the person gives up the alcohol and saying, "How about quitting smoking?"  "Oh, my gosh.  Then what will I do for fun?"  The idea that, you know, you need your vices for your fun.
 Huh.  Well, you got your sex then, too.
 What, that's not working?
 Um, what about your boyfriends?
 Yeah, and I know, so does that work?
 No?  Why not?
 You'd rather do drugs than sex.
 [INAUDIBLE] rats would rather have cocaine than sex.  You give them, give a rat the opportunity to mate versus cocaine, they'll take the cocaine any day.
 Um, what other fun activities can you get high on life with other than -
 Um-hum.
 Sometimes you smoke too much marijuana you get this thing where you don't want to do anything.
 Well, yeah, there's the other opportunity to like, give you some Vyvanse or something.  You know, it's like a psycho stimulant medication.
 Well, you know, it's useful for people with attention deficit disorder or depression or lack of motivation.  You take one a day and, uh, just sort of carries you along.  You've never tried that and that might be worth trying.
 Although, you're bipolar, it's something that might well help.
 Yeah, we don't want you to get manic.
 Wounded?
 Huh.
 Sounds sad.
 Yeah, how about whistle while you work.  You ever try that one?
 What is that, "Snow White"?
 What are your longer-range goals in life?
 Get married; have kids?
 Um, well, get married and work for an abortion clinic.
 Oh.  So somewhere in between, huh?
 Ah, substance abuse evaluators.  Now, where was your thing in?  What county did it happen?
 Yeah, see, the kind of evaluation that these places may do may be different from what I would do.  I'd just give you a letter, written drug evaluation.
 Not necessarily.  I can try to do a letter, I think.  Want me to do that?
 You got to get the urine drug screen.
 That would be good.
 Yeah, well, the second one, um, it would need to get done like in 2 more weeks.
 Yeah.  Should go to the same lab.  Go to [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Well, the second one you need to do after [DATE].
 Okay.  So get that other one the next day or so.  And what day did they sign this thing?  [DATE].  Okay.  So let's have you come back, um, like, [DATE].  And we'll put this all together.  I'm going to stop this now, and, uh, they'll have these.  Um, yeah, we'll have you come back on [DATE] and then we'll, we'll have what all we're going to put in there.  Are you working out, exercising or anything like that?  Huh?
 Okay.  Did I give you the Vyvanse script?  No.  Not yet.  Okay.  Let me write one for you.  Oh, it's right here.
 You have a what in your -
 TV in your room.
 You need to get more active in life, more physically.
 Just sit there and rot away, huh?
 Huh.  Doesn't sound like much fun.
 It's interesting though, that you chose to have that, uh, put on there, um, for the, uh, conditional release there, Class C.
 Huh.  Well, maybe that was a flash of insight that you had, you know?  I'll hang on to that.  And, uh, is your insurance paying?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Which letter?
 Do you have the, a sufficient letter or do you need something different?
 Okay.  It's just [NAME OTHER] or a dependent of, I should say mother and father -
 So just change this to say, and parents, to say, her parents?
 Okay.
 But so I should use this same thing, just say parents instead of mother?
 So simple.
 Okay.  All right.  Well, I'm going to stop this thing -
 While I take this call and, uh, uh, it's not the cheapest thing in the world, but, um, yeah, we're going to go over a couple other things here.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Sometimes it strangely cuts out after two seconds. So, let's see, if you think, first I wanted to talk about your parents' stuff and the appeal.
 We've still got mostly [inaudible] to get back to them.
 Yes, from the insurance.
 I mean I know with you, questions...So basically, I wanted you to know what I've written so far.
 Let's see, they asked about your reason for seeking care and the goal of treatment so I said that, "You sought treatment [inaudible at 00:00:58] for self-harm and to ameliorate other depressive symptoms that considerably impair your mood and functioning. You've struggled with depression much of your life and have had two hospitalizations in the past year." That's kind of...
 Ok. They asked about was it a treatment intervention, a supplemental psychotherapy, and that you had considerable experience with EBT and DBT approaches.
 Ok.
 Alright, ok. [inaudible crosstalk] The reason I put it that way was because sometimes people get sort of a [inaudible] to focus and that's not, so I wanted to make it clear that you have it and use it.
 What happens when you're trying to [inaudible crosstalk]?
 I'm not saying, I mean, do what's helpful
 Now, like I was saying, they want to know about your current medication regimen which I just don't know.
 20 mg Aderol XR, yup.
 Wait, ok yes.
 I don't want to tell them that.
 It's alright.
 I'm sorry; you said half a mg for anxiety?
 [inaudible crosstalk]
 Let's see. And they have a symptom checklist here. The things I put as severe were depression, self-esteem, and suicidal thoughts. For moderate, anxiety, concentration, difficulties, and self-injurious things. For mild, like environmental stress and relationship stuff, that kind of thing.
 And then for none, do you have issues with sleep? I mean...
 Ok.
 Let's see, I put nothing as far as like substance abuse stuff and...
 Yeah. And we haven't really talked about any issues with eating food.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Let's see. And then do you have any sexual issues? And try to answer honestly to that.
 How about [inaudible] it seems like a pretty expectable symptom of depression.
 Ok, that's it with that. (pause) Let's see [trial and loss] (ph) I'm going to put moderate.
 Ok, I guess the other, it asks about progress in treatment like in here, thus far. And it, (sighs) the way I thought of it was this. It appears to me that, also the progress is in like getting me up to speed and you're sort of coming to trust in me and get more of a sense of me and what it's like.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I think this would segue well into your question last week about where we are going.
 But, (pause)
 Yeah, that's I guess, sort of my impression that, I guess I'll put it, this is a long game. It doesn't seem to me, it would have been great if neither of us were that concerned or bothered that like your symptoms have not improved much since you've been here.
 Good.
 Yeah, I, for the kind of stuff that we're working on and the way that we are that all sounds like perfectly reasonable and [plenty of progress] (ph) to me. I just, it sounds like we're on the same page. I guess I just wanted to make sure of that.
 Ok, so that does it for those. I will send this in and oh, the other thing that is related, so I've heard, I think it's probably better if we go to them with a specific request than a general request, like in other words, x number of sessions rather than we want twice a week therapy ongoing. So, I guess that relates to the question of how do you want to pay for this, assuming they're not going to just pick it up, which I'm quite sure they won't from what I've heard from talking to people inside UHS. Are you going to self-pay or get on James's insurance or you're calling different insurance?
 Ok.
 Ok.
 Sure. Let's see. There's a few things there. In terms of how long the recording with go on and assuming that you don't want to stop it at some point, I just spoke with the woman at the company yesterday said that there, what she said was potentially indefinitely as far as she knows. She said that the database they're adding to now with close at the end of this calendar year, 2012. But, because of the interest they've had, particularly instead of therapy transcripts they're likely to be, beginning a new database of those so subsequently so she thought it would just be ongoing.
 Right, that said, I guess (long pause) I had a few related thoughts and questions that sort of tie into the issue of insurance and where we're going. (long pause) The, the question is what is it that makes it really complicated to get on James's insurance?
 Ok.
 Ok.
 Ok, (pause) they, I guess three things on that. One, like I've had to do that paperwork from Blue Cross myself and in the realm of paperwork it's not that bad because it's a onetime thing. I think I may have a copy of the form; it's like two pages of kind of my information. Now, I hear you that like it is very difficult for you to do that.
 If you like, if it would be easier, you could bring it in here and we'll fill it out together.
 That's fine with me.
 I'm on a couple of options I guess, one of which is intensive psychotherapy which is what we're doing now pretty much. And the other of which is analysis, which is more intensive like three or four times a week and also like this, it would be pretty long term, years. Sometimes that can be really helpful and sometimes it's not the right thing. And like truly from a clinical point of view forgetting about, you know...
 No, no it's a...mostly, most people experience the difference largely in terms of the increased frequency. Sometimes, you know often people use the couch as well as sitting up face to face, so like you lie on the couch, I turn my chair around and back up a little bit. So that's different.
 Yeah, but either way, I'm not sure that would be the best thing for you. Often if someone has a trauma history you want to think very carefully about using the couch. It can be scary.
 Yeah, right, and it, and the point of all of this, the point of all of this is like slowly to do what's most helpful. Those are really the differences. Like in terms of my approach and the sort of things I'm likely to say or what I would ask you to do, it's the same. Like pretty much [inaudible] and sort of associate.
 It's primarily a difference in intensity. That's right and (pause) and sometimes that can be, the increased intensity can be, I mean I think it's pretty fair to say given what you've been struggling with and what's been going on it's going to be intense either way like. But, well it would be more so (long pause) in a couple of ways. In some ways that can be extremely helpful and sometimes it can really not be helpful.
 And that's, and that's what the question in my mind anyway is, is, which is more likely. I don't know.
 Now, and that of course besides the issue of what you want to do or what the question, what is feasible for you, I'm just, my job is to come up with what I think is sort of likely to be clinically best helpful and then, you know then we can talk about what's feasible or what's, all that other stuff which is totally reasonable to consider and think about. Yeah, I may answered more questions about where we're going either way. (long pause) [00:19:46]
 Yeah, yeah. Are there specific things you are wondering about in terms of what can and can't be accomplished with this sort of treatment?
 No, it's fine. (pause) You know in some sense to put it crassly, like this is what is what it sounds like, like I should be able to talk about it. (long pause) Yeah, in terms of psychological therapy and psychoanalysis can, you know, the hope would be to like ameliorate your depression as much as possible. Essentially, let me put it this way, so particularly in an analysis, I think that's the easier one to describe then I can sort of describe the differences in psychotherapy. The major like issues and struggles in your life get relived in the treatment, in the treatment relationship. So, things like the hurts, the disappointments, the hopes, the loneliness, the vulnerability like actually comes into the treatment, the parts of it that matter. The part of the history that come into the treatment itself and you can sort of talk about and like navigate all of those old sort of worries and injuries and (pause) you know, disappointments and kind of in real time, in a relationship in which they're being stirred up. It's not just like the past comes to life because those issues are already alive in your present life, they're just kind of disguised and it's hard to sort out what's what in most people I think. So, it's not like it's just sort of artifacts from the past that are being brought back, but you know artifacts from the past that have been disguised in ways of being played out in the struggles that you're having now. So this is what makes them relevant to the present. [00:23:39]
 And by kind of reliving and talking about, sort of working through all of those things it's possible to ameliorate a lot of the pain and fear and sadness, anger that, they evolve. So, (long pause) you know to put it (pause) like more so that we can completely, in terms of things, you know I have talked about. You know, you talked about a fear with insecurity in your life, really not being worth it and really being a disappointment. And, you know I imagine you would, maybe you already feel some of that here, but you probably in one form, or from one angle or another would come to feel it very intensely here and I would say things that would, you know, not intentionally that would trigger it, you know, or actually making you feel better about it. We would have a chance to kind of reflect on that, like oh, "yeah, I didn't realize, but when you said this it actually made me feel like that. It really touched on this and that was why I was so upset." And, "oh, I see, so that's why something sounded like this because it actually meant that." You know, like there are ways of kind of dealing with it as it comes up in the moment in a [setting] (ph) like this where we could look at what's going on in that way. Over time, you come to feel better about stuff and more...
 Equipped to handle it and, yeah less dominated by it.
 And that kind of stuff happens sort of (long pause), you know, sometime analysis is the best way to bring that stuff up and deal with it and other times it isn't. Like the...
 You know, sometimes the intensity is too much, like or the ways that the intensity emerges aren't right. You know, it's so much a matter of is the person strong enough, but like on the ways that, because things get evoked, like do more harm than good.
 Yeah, right. So, and it's a, psychotherapy is a similar process to analysis. It's sometimes like (pause) you know, it's all that stuff coming up and getting wigged out or what's happening with the relationship, but sometimes there's not quite the opportunity to make it quite as explicit or to see quite how clearly things relate to each other or have them come up with the same kind of force as they do. It's very hard to predict. But, I mean it's sort of a similar type of treatment.
 Did that give you some kind of a picture?
 Ok. Is there more, anything to ask about that?
 Yeah, of course. (long pause) Yeah, well then certainly if you feel like it, certainly if you feel like it ask whenever.
 And did that also kind of address some of the like, "where are we going"?
 Are there other aspects of that?
 And there's certainly stuff he can read and look at. Like if you look at the website of the American Psychological Association I think there's a section on there about "What is Psychoanalysis." That can be a good starting point if he likes to journals and studies and conferences. Like, that's not going to, nothing could (laughs), in kind of creating a real specific roadmap. But...
 That's right.
 That's right.
 Yeah, and in fact (pause)...
 (laughs)
 (laughs) Yeah, right.
 Right, you know a lot of time this helps and sometimes it doesn't, we're not really sure why.
 Yeah, yeah this is a little more in, in this sense, maybe some others, like writing a novel in that (pause) you know you can't, or in school for that matter, you know really know, neither of us, what you're getting into and where it's going to end up and even if you had a sort of a schematic idea of where your novel is going to go before you started it, like once you started filling it all in and writing it, it would probably start looking a lot different. You know what I mean? Even the name of the destinations where you thought you were going to end the whole scene would be very different from the [inaudible at 00:32:23]. This is a little more like that.
 Yeah, so feel free to ask me any questions that crop up about that.
 Sure, oh I mean like the, at this point there are like 30,000 sort of periodicals, academic papers and psychological literature there's a "there" there in that sense.
 (laughs) [inaudible] It's hard to say. I mean, I, I'm not aligned with a particular school of contemporary psychoanalysis. I have a sort of interest, which is, which is fairly typical these days. There are some people who sort of are interested in and are trained in very specifically within one approach, but most, most people these days that's not true. You may gravitate one way or the other, but...
 Yeah, something like that. Or that (long pause), yeah it's a little more the opposite of a little more post-talk in the sense that, like I'm sure when you read a paper somebody's written and you can sort of see, "Oh yeah, I can see the influence of this sort of mentor or school of thought." Whereas that mentor or school of thought, you know in the way they approached the problem and then wrote about it, or didn't write about it or something. Where it's not necessarily like a person actually doing the research said, "Ok, I'm going to do this thing in this way and that thing in that way." It's more like they did it their way and then you can kind of, you know after the fact kind of look back and see their influences or sort of something like that I think. Does that make sense?
 Yeah and like if I was really going to think like, you know contemporary eco-psychology and some things from [south] (ph) psychology and from like contemporary Kleinian approaches to psychoanalysis.
 Sure. (long pause)
 Good. The other thing is, just let me know any other thoughts or questions you have. (pause) Yeah. (long pause) So, to tie it back a little bit, one reason I mentioned about the insurance is, is that I'd imagine that particularly if we did more, if it did make more sense to do more sessions that becomes a different calculation.
 Sure. Yeah. And also in terms of the form (pause), let's see, it's now the beginning of April, so this wouldn't turn over for four months. (long pause) Do you know if you'll be able to get Blue Cross to reimburse you from when you were in the hospital? Like, consider those not outpatient visits or [inaudible]?
 Ok, we'll do that. Ok, it's up to you.
 Yeah.
 Well and when you're in the hospital you might not be in the state of mind to read carefully through a form.
 I mean, how do you want me to write it? Do you want me to request a certain number of sessions or...?
 Ok.
 That's my sense, yeah.
 I mean, I would think something between 12 and 24 sessions.
 Ok. Alright then I'll do that and let you know what I find out.
 Sure. (long pause) Yeah, I'll have a look and I guess in terms of insurance one good thing about that is that's something you can disrupt at any time.
 And like I said, I'm happy to, fortunately and unfortunately for me I have to fill out that particular form so I'm happy to help you, especially with something that is stressful.
 Ok.
 Right, I agree. Yeah, I just seems like it would be too bad if that, that filling out those forms became a very expensive thing.
 I guess I didn't know what to ask you to do about this stuff is like (pause) whether sort of getting more, sort of harder or some like insurance with Blue Cross. Like, (long pause) I've wondered about how much like you're issues of feeling like you don't deserve things, like you don't deserve help implicated some of this. Like if you're getting help you should be paying, it should be costing you more. You know what I mean? Like, I hope that's not there, but I figured I'd ask in case you think it may be.
 Yeah.
 Ok, well we're going to stop for now, we'll talk more tomorrow.
 I'm going to review the forms and then we're going to get started.  All right, thank you [PATIENT NAME].  Hello?  All right, thank you for coming today.  So, how are things going?
 You quit taking, why, why that?
 Um—hum.
 I see.
 So, how long have you been off it?
 For a week.  Do you feel more depressed or less depressed?  Do you feel any difference?
 Um—hum.
 You feel okay?
 So, what happened, when you had, when you said —
 Right.
 Right.
 Okay.  So you are not, you didn't go for the summer course?
 That, that was important for you.
 Because I know that you enjoy going to school and studying.
 Right.  I mean why, why, why didn't you go for the summer school?
 Do you have, do you have difficulty understanding the subject sometimes?
 And do it again.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.  So how do you spend your time now?
 Reading?
 What do you read?
 Okay.
 Do, do you go out?  Do you socialize?
 No.
 Um—hum.  Um—hum.
 Right.
 No energy.
 Right.  Crying.  Are you sad?
 Sad.
 Okay.
 Um—hum.  So doing the, the day to day things is becoming harder lately?
 Okay.  Um, all right, and so you stay in bed most of the time, or do you stay home?  What do you do when you are home?
 You read.  Other than reading, other than that?
 You go to the gym.
 How often?
 Okay.
 Does it, does it help?
 It doesn't help anymore.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 It is not anymore?
 It is not anymore?
 And we started Ambien 10 mg?
 Did it help you sleep?
 Help you sleep at night?
 So, because at one point, you did not sleep well.
 But —
 What thoughts do you have in your mind?
 Um—hum.
 Okay, so you stay up because of the thought —
 And then the next day you, give me an example of what thoughts you have in mind.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Keep thinking about her —
 All the time.
 Okay.
 Good.
 Right.
 Right.  Okay, any problems with the neighbors?  You said that —
 All of the workers in the complex.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.  And right now, are you still taking the Seroquel XR 800 mg at bedtime?
 You take two of them?
 Okay.  We, and, um, you still, okay, so now you take the Geodon 120, is that right?
 Huh?
 And the 80.
 And then the, and the Seroquel XR, you take just one of the 400?
 Okay.  Do you think that this controls your paranoia a little bit?
 That using both of them is, is, is a good way to go?
 Because we were thinking about taking you off the Seroquel and stay on the Geodon.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Right.  So when, when you are more depressed, the thoughts would come more.
 That's right?  That's what you're saying.
 Do you think that when we used the, uh, Seroquel XR 800 mg, was it better than using, uh, at 400?
 So, you, are you, are you feeling —
 Good, good with the, with the thoughts.  For the schizophrenia part —
 You feel good with the Seroquel XR 400 —
 And the, and the Geodon —
 A hundred and twenty and 80.
 Is that right?
 Feel good there?
 But now we are, we need to work on the depression part.
 Is that right?
 Okay.  And right now, you are taking Wellbutrin SR?
 And you take 150 every four hours?
 Two hundred.
 To 200 twice a day.
 Twice.
 One in the morning and one at —
 In the afternoon.
 Total of 400.
 Okay, and do you take it, do you take your medicine every day, or do you skip days?
 All the time.  Um—hum.  Do you think that the Wellbutrin, when we increased the dose from 150 to 200, did it help or no?  Actually not at all.
 You felt worse.  Um—hum.
 Right.
 Because I think right now we have to make a decision about your depression medication.
 Right now, you are taking the Wellbutrin 200 twice a day.  So, maybe it's a good idea to take you off the Wellbutrin.
 Keep, keep the, uh, Seroquel XR and the Geodon going.  Keep the Ambien going, and then we'll find another antidepressant that works —
 Better than the Wellbutrin.  What do you think?
 That sound good?  Okay.
 Was there any antidepressant, yes, go ahead.
 Yes.
 Right.  And you're right, when you are so depressed, your thoughts will come back, the psychosis is going to come back and the paranoia is going to come back and, and all the, have you been hearing voices lately?
 No.  Any ideas of killing yourself or hurting yourself?
 And you know that we are always open for crisis and, and 24 hour 7 —
 Coverage.  So I mean really, did you think about ending your life using any methods or —
 It was just a flying thought?
 Um—hum.
 It was, it was just that you are so depressed feeling that life is not worth living —
 And you want, you didn't know what [INAUDIBLE] but you didn't plan anything.
 But you know, if things get worse, and, and if you need to go to the emergency room, just feel free to go to the emergency room, and then we'll talk to you.  We'll be able to handle that.  It's easier to handle it when it is still manageable rather than leave the thoughts and, and stay depressed.
 Okay?
 So back to the depression part, were there any antidepressants that worked well for you better than the Wellbutrin?
 Do you, was it once a day or twice a day?
 Was it Zoloft, Prozac, Lexapro?
 Effexor.
 Citalopram, Celexa?
 Celexa?
 So now you remember?
 Okay.
 Celexa, do you, do you remember what you used, 20 mg, 40 mg?
 Okay.  Okay, if we are going to change it, we, we can, we can try Celexa.  We can try Celexa, but we, I think what we are going to do, we take you off the Wellbutrin, all right?  We're going to take you off the Wellbutrin gradually.  For example, you take, you are taking 200 twice a day.  So the first week, go from twice a day to once a day.  Then the, the next week, you take, you take yourself off it.
 At the same time, we're going to give you a new prescription for Celexa 20 mg, okay?
 Afraid of what [PATIENT NAME]?
 Right.  Right.  But that's, that's why I think we need to work on the depression part.
 We'll try it.  The, the problem with antidepressants is that it takes four weeks.
 Okay?  And, uh, with Celexa, there is some side effects that's kind of different than the Wellbutrin side effects.  The first one that may happen will be nausea and vomiting.  You had it, had some sexual side effects too.
 So, it's, it's kind of a typical antidepressant, uh, but it, usually most of the patients do well on it.  So you need to be physically aware of it and then if, if something happens, just give me a call and we'll talk about it.  Twenty mg is, is a low dose of Celexa.  So, most, most of the time we need to go to 40 mg.
 So what I think is good idea to use it for the first four weeks at 20 mg, but just that's not enough by the third week or the fourth week, give us a call —
 And then we, we are going to up it to 40.
 Okay?
 The, the other option is there is another medication very similar to Celexa called Lexapro.
 Uh, and again, it's, you can use like 10 mg and then we can go up to 20.  Both of them are, are good ones for depression, but you did well on Celexa?
 Okay.  So if you did well on Celexa, we can go back to Celexa, give it a try for, for three or four weeks and go up to 40 mg if we need to.
 And see how it goes.
 Uh, it's, it's a struggle.  I, I know schizophrenia is a struggle and I really thank you today for sharing all the mental history and the thoughts about schizophrenia.  That's very good because you are open about it, and that would help us.  Um, I, I just think if, we have the day program here, uh, if you, because you're isolated —
 You stay home.  I know that you don't like, you're not kind of open to social life.
 I know.
 Um—hum.
 Would you, would you like to come to our day program just to, to be more —
 Because you are not going to school anymore.
 So that could be something that I would really ask you to talk to [NAME OTHER] and she can give you a list.  We have several, uh, groups going on during the day.  We have the diet and nutrition group.  We have the sleep group.  We have the women's group.  So there is many groups going on.
 An anxiety and depression group too.  So, I would say, I would, if you, if you come for a few of these groups —
 Once, most of the groups are once weekly.  So you can come, uh, for two or three groups that you kind of pick with [NAME OTHER] —
 That, that you are interested in coming to.  Find it in the schedule and, and which you, you'll be able to come in.
 So, that's important too.
 Uh, especially with, without going to school.  I, I like that you are going to the gym.  I like that you have your dog.
 It's all good news.  Uh, if you add some lifestyle changes regarding like diet and nutrition and sleep hygiene, and, and the depression and anxiety group may help too.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Um—hum.
 I, I highly recommend it.  I think it's important because I mean with the schizophrenia, you need to be out.  If you stay at home, you isolate the thoughts and the paranoia and the voices and they come back.
 We don't want that to happen.  I mean when you are, when you are by yourself, you are not busy.  This is, this is not good idea.
 Have you been thinking about drinking or anything?
 Good.  Excellent.  So just, I think, I think you are trying to maintain your recovery, trying to maintain your insanity, your sanity I should say.
 Which is good.  I mean I think you, you are doing, uh, the best that you can.  There is a lot of effort [INAUDIBLE].
 To do this, um, but I, I think if we add the groups, and if we switch the antidepressants —
 We have a chance.
 About that.
 That sounds good plan?
 So, uh, do you have an appointment to see [NAME OTHER] or not?
 See if she is available today.  I think that that would be good way to, I mean if she's available today, talk to her before you leave.
 Okay.  And then, uh, I'm going to ask you to just sign this informed consent
 It's for the, uh, start of Celexa.
 Then I'm going to give you, uh —
 Yeah.  I'm going to give you the prescription for Celexa and then you are going to take yourself off the, um, Wellbutrin gradually.
 Uh, physically, have you been healthy?
 Do you cook?
 Not really.
 Right.  Vegetables, fruits?
 Oh, that is your favorite?
 Um—hum.  Have you been gaining weight or losing weight?
 Okay.  You think that you are gaining, but with the gym too, I mean you are physically active.
 This is good.
 Oh, because you feel like you did something, so you can, you have an excuse to eat.
 Okay, this is the Celexa.
 Yes.  Let, let, one more thing.  Um, I believe it's, it's time to do your lab work again.
 We do like the, uh, Lipitor [INAUDIBLE] and the CBC, CNP.
 So, let's do that.  It's fasting after midnight.
 So, let's do your lab work too.
 Uh, cholesterol.  The cortisol we don't.
 But cholesterol we do.
 Cholesterol, triglycerides, the liver function test, the kidney function test.
 Because some of the meds that you are on, they increase your triglycerides and cholesterol, especially the, the Geodon, not to that extent, but sometimes Seroquel and Geodon.
 Do you need refills, by the way, on anything?
 Okay, so you, you have, you have too many?
 You [INAUDIBLE] so you are good with that.
 Okay.  And we did several changes lately —
 On that, so.  Okay, any questions or anything else?
 Let's check your weight before you go because I forget about that.
 Was it 130.
 One thirty eight, 138.
 Oh, you gained three pounds.
 You gained three pounds.  Uh, the nurse is, is here every day in the morning.  So you can do your, uh, blood work in the morning, uh, anytime after 8:00 whenever you are able to come at 8:00.
 You don't eat after midnight.  You can still take your medications and drink water —
 But don't eat after midnight.
 Uh, and then check with [NAME OTHER] before you go.
 And then fill the prescription for Celexa.
 And, uh, let's meet again about eight weeks.
 You have another appointment.
 Excellent.  So keep the August appointment.
 I think that, that will be, uh, I mean a good time to check again and see how things go, but definitely, if depression gets worse or, uh, you are kind of down, can't stay by yourself, just go to the ER or call the crisis number.
 Um—hum.
 Sure.
 You know, what, what I'm saying, I mean I would like you to have, uh, a busy day.  I mean structured schedule.
 [INAUDIBLE].  I, I would rather, I, I definitely would like you to socialize.
 I don't, I don't like it when you isolate.
 So, is your mom going to be helpful, if going close to mom, I mean we always encourage family to be involved.
 If mom is willing to be involved and wants you to be with her, and think that it would be good environment for you, that's good because that would provide a stability for you and then some social life and more activity to do.
 So, that's, that's fine.  Um, if you think that this is a good time to do it, we can help with the transition, of course.
 Uh, where is she living?
 Um—hum.
 Right.  If you, if you think that this is a good idea, we can, I mean definitely if mom wants to come in, if your mom wants to come in and, and I think that may be a good idea, if she wants to come in and talk to us about what meds are you on and what schizophrenia means and what depression, about the depression because I mean if she's going to take care of you, so at least she needs to know —
 About this.  Does she believe that or is she going to be supportive with the meds and the treatment?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And, and the thing about the, the strong point about you just that you understand your illness.
 And I think today you helped us understand it too because you know what I'm saying, with that —
 That was a great session.  So I think that was good that you understand and you know the importance of being on the meds and, and the meaning and what, what schizophrenia means and what, um, the medication do for you and everything.  So, that's, that's, I think that's how you keep yourself, uh, healthy.
 It's like any other illness.  I mean if you don't believe it, if you don't take your meds —
 If you don't, if you're in denial, nothing is going to get better.
 So, better face it and, and confront your illness rather than deny it.
 And I'm, I'm willing, if mom wants to come in to have a session with us, we can do that.
 Okay?
 All right.  Well, well we'll meet you in, in August.
 But, uh, check with [NAME OTHER].
 All right?
 Thank you [PATIENT NAME].
 It's a really good thing that you weren't looking for consistency.
(Laughter)
 Yeah.
 Get to work?
 That might not be so easy.
 I see.
 Gotcha. So that's sort of etched in a schedule?
 Sure.
 Oh, I see.
 He doesn't want to leave somebody there by themselves.
 Oh.
 Oh, okay.
 I see. Oh, okay.
(Laughter)
 I see. Got it.
 I'm surprised that the chemistry labs aren't here that I've heard about. People often stay really late.
 Yeah.
 Oh, wow.
 What everybody's made of, yeah.
 So, what happened yesterday?
 Well, when you said that yesterday, it seemed to be the strain of mental effort that was propelling your mood down, is there more you can explain about that? Like - I mean I kind of get it, but I kind of don't.
 The stuff being your worries about getting through the program or?
 Like a mistake - like mistakes are made associated with doing the work?
 I see. In a way that they don't with like Middlemarch or something, where you can just read it not nearly so burdened by those upper criminations (ph) and worries and stuff?
 Right. Right.
 Huh. What were you thinking as in what were you thinking throughout the course of the conversation.
 I see.
 And then I guess really lash out at yourself after?
 Yeah. [00:13:02]
 So you're feeling discombobulated and at loose ends here in how you're talking about what's been going on and that lack of coherence that you feel about how you're talking is something you're very critical of yourself for? [00:14:09]
 In a sort of a performative way?
 Yeah, we had the same thought that apparently you're feeling like one of us could do it.
(Laughter)
(Pause)
 And so if you can't - but - so do you mean like the conversation will be less worthwhile if you're less organized?
 Right.
 It's therapy, you know, like. I guess ... that means there - [00:16:16]
 I guess that's certainly how you feel about it anyway.
(Laughter)
 I see. Like more - like constructive.
 I'm wondering if there's a bit of an undertow, like a kind of a (inaudible at 00:18:44) there 'cause maybe you all just want to be taken care of in whatever shape you're in, and not have to work so hard and make such an effort to pull it together.
 And what was your (inaudible at 00:19:21)?
 Yeah.
(Pause)
 Oh. That's bad. [00:21:04]
(Laughter)
 Oh.
 Oh.
 I see.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Is she in this area?
 I see.
 I have the impression that ... when he has taken initiative like that without your asking, it's really nice.
 And I suspect it makes you really feel taken care of.
 What I understand is not the same as not - you'll always be able to count on that happening.
 Is it one of the things that you love about him that he'll do that when he can?
 Have you ever had that before? [00:27:02]
 Right.
 No - I mean like - where do you sort of focus most on making sure that you kind of bring to the table whatever you need to? [00:30:01]
 Sure. I see.
 Yeah.
 Well, to tell you the truth, I think it's worse.
(Laughter)
 I think that - I think there are times when you need more, or you certainly really want it, and it's not even really your decision whether you're gonna sort of decide to or feel entitled to ask for it or not, you know? Like - you know, like if you're in here but say really upset just as an example and feeling like you ought to be more pulled together, wishing you were more pulled together, feeling like it's your responsibility to be more articulate about what you're struggling with or more understanding of it or something like that, and you're just not in the moment. You know? Like, that wasn't a decision you made to be that way. It's just where you're at. And I - I - I guess part of what you're making clear is what a vulnerable position that is for you to be in. [00:31:59]
 It feels like I just want to, but I - I - I take your point also about how big a deal it is to be able to like feel all right much of the time to be able to ask for what you want, that in fact like -
 Okay.
(Laughter)
 Okay. Fair enough.
(Laughter)
 Yeah. (Overtalk at 00:33:04). I don't mean to (inaudible at 00:33:11) as a like a big deal.
 Okay. Yeah.
(Pause)
 Yeah?
 And you just remembered?
 Uh-huh. [00:36:00]
 Yeah, and I got it. Be - be happy because ... how.
 Yeah, I think there's probably some pretty important stuff there.
 Sure. [00:38:00]
(Pause)
 So you're scared all the time that you're going to kill yourself?
 What are the kinds of thoughts you have? [00:38:54]
 Do you feel like there is a terribly destructive part of yourself that makes you forget about the things like that that you live for that keep you alive - that keep you alive or that forgets about other things like the medication that?
 I guess it doesn't feel like any part of you? It feels like it's something that just kind of happens that way?
 Or like forgetting about what's good more so than a ...
 Like you're so absorbed with where you're at that things just kind of go away? [00:43:07]
 So if that's feeling bad, then your reason for staying alive kind of just kind of go away.
 I see.
 Sure. Sure. We can stop for now, but we'll talk more next week. Yeah, and let me know if I may need to touch base - touch base before Wednesday. [00:44:14]
 OK. And yourself?
 Could it feel tense in here, too? Is there any way of... (Crosstalk)?
 Yeah?
 Any sense of what that dread was? Like, what's going to happen today?
 Maybe that's part of what's hard is a little bit more freeform than what you (crosstalk)?
 But it sounds like the idea that I might - there's something about my raising (inaudible) relationship that makes you... [02:04]
 Oh yeah? You think you can count? (Chuckles)
 Well, it sounds like you have a reaction to that.
 So when we actually talk about us, it feels like there's a gap and it leads to more disconnection rather than more connection (inaudible).
 Which is just to say that there's something uncomfortable about it, is what I'm hearing.
 Meaning, like, it doesn't make sense to you, or you feel kind of stuck?
 Well, I was wondering -
 Is that what makes me seem blank, or is it a way in which you don't know what I'm really thinking or feeling in the moment? I mean, I'm recalling your times telling me that you feel like I can be kind of cryptic, or not direct. And I'm wondering if part of that is, if in some way it feels like I'm not really showing you who I am, in terms of how I'm feeling, or... There's some way that I can emote (ph) to you, and from the way that I relate to you.
 In what sense?
 ...than other therapists that you've worked with?
 You hate doing tasks.
 So it sounds like in some way the tasks are less clear, but there's still a sense that you - that's why you say you don't know what I'm looking for, like it makes it harder to know whether you're performing adequately if you don't know...
 ...what you're looking for. It sounds like you (inaudible) feeling kind of anxious.
 The right channel for it.
 Like a safe channel? [10:11]
 I'm a little lost, yeah. Feeling (crosstalk).
 Well, can I check in with you first like how you're feeling, because it sounds like you're struggling to get your point across, and you're kind of lost yourself. So I'm wondering are you aware of how you're feeling? Could that help us understand the lost?
 It would be what would be what I wanted or what I would react well to.
 Really?
 Is it partly what made it hard to come tonight, do you think?
 What's the...
 Something feel scary about having to introduce that again?
 Like trying to beat me to the punch or something?
 So is the worry, the feeling that I might pressure you to say more about what you mean by good, not great, that you might have - the worries about stating what you'd really want?
 Or what you want.
 No, that's OK.
 If I'm interested to know more about it, then that leaves you feeling like you're wrong.
 'Cause what I hear - I mean, I hear a lot - it sounds complicated. There are many parts to all of this. One thing I hear is you saying that you raise a criticism, or some feeling of not getting all that you want, and maybe [there'd be] (ph) expectations that you might have of me, and it sounds like it quickly flips to, well, if you're having expectations of me, I'm going to have bigger ones of you. Like my sense is it starts to feel dangerous to allow yourself to have any wishes or expectations of me. [18:49]
 So you worry about not being able to be good enough. And I guess what I find myself feeling sometimes in here is that what I have to offer isn't good enough. Or that I'm not sure how to be helpful to you. I think I sometimes feel frustrated that what I try - I guess, what I perceive as trying to offer something feels not right to you.
And I say that, I mean on both - I think it's important to understand that, but I guess, it seems like there's interplay between [our both feeling] (ph). It's something I'm aware of sometimes that's hard for me to get quite right. It looks like you're having a reaction to that. How does that sound to (crosstalk)? [20:39]
 What, to look at jumping into the hole?
 Because it might lead you somewhere where you are trying to escape (crosstalk)?
 I just got lost there.
 Right in what sense?
 So to link this up with our interaction, am I right that in some way, when I ask questions or ask you to say more about something, the risk is that I'm going to bring you down somehow? Is there some type of a fight (crosstalk)?
 Because it does feel like, I think sometimes, about the control. I think that there's some of that. Does that fit for you? That somehow... [26:00]
 Yeah, 'cause I remember at times you say I'm going to be jumping around, jump in there when I do that. And then, sometimes if I do, I feel kind of slapped down a little bit, like you've got to finish your thought, like that control thing. It feels hard to collaborate sometimes.
So you're saying yourself that you're aware of some kind of a conflict, kind of wanting interaction but fearing it too. (Inaudible) make sense. And right now, 'cause here we are talking about our relationship. What (inaudible).
 Yeah?
 Because why? What's the feeling you want to escape from?
 There was a moment where I was going to ask if you were aware of that (inaudible) right now? [28:09]
 Keeping your heart hidden?
 Is it important for me to ask? Should I inquire about getting off-subject, or should I let you go?
 You want to go.
 His pain?
 So there's both a wish to be able to share it more?
 So in here, you might really wish for my encouragement and my support (inaudible) feelings (inaudible) prizes (ph). (Inaudible)
 And it sounds like, though, you said before, I remember you used the other (ph) joke of knocking on the door and no one was on the other side. It's like that fear of the unknown. It's like you're not sure who you can trust who won't spring out like a monster in some way.
 It ended up not being real, deep down?
 It looks like you start to fizzle (ph) (inaudible) sad news (inaudible).
 So you really felt let down as a (inaudible). The reward -
 Is there any way that in here, the worry is that - of following what I intended, that you'll... 'cause if that - it seems like we were talking a little bit about control and trust. I wonder if it feels sometimes like following my lead, my questions, as kind of a risk? That you won't get what you need out of it? You'll be taking care of me rather than yourself? [37:41]
 You make it sound like it (inaudible) exactly, though.
 Well, there's an example of where - I appreciate that you're trying to go this route, but both (ph) an example of I feel like I'm trying hard to understand and it never quite hits. I wonder - because I feel like I'm not doing a good enough job understanding, because I don't hit the mark somehow.
 That you question, that you sort of scrutinize that idea.
 It's not like your kind of immediate reaction is one of - the feeling level is kind of recognition, "Oh yeah, that's kind of true."
 You don't want it to be true.
 It sounds like you're hard and... Or that...
 And does it also sound like a - like, is that part of the... it sounds like it's a criticism that I'm making? (Inaudible at 41:04)
 You judge it as horrible.
 Or that I might be angry at you for...
 Like being reluctant or hesitant about following my lead?
 I think sometimes I do feel frustrated. Because from where I sit, I feel like I'm wanting to understand, and sort of reach you for us to have (ph) some understanding. So when I put something out I feel like it's an effort to understand, and you react by saying, "I don't know if that's really it, da da da," and then I sort of end up feeling, "Oh shit. I can't do it right." So I sort of... So yeah, I think there is some frustration. [43:28]
But it's not so much that, the idea that you would be anxious or reluctant to follow my lead like, that, understanding that I don't feel critical or angry at you for that.
 Well, I feel frustrated in the moment, not in terms of - I don't feel frustrated like, "Oh, you're that way, that's awful, I'm angry at you." I think in the moment a feeling like I can't do something. It's sort of, I think, because my own experience is like, "Oh. I'm not doing a good enough job here." And it sounds like you get caught in some things somehow. But how is it for me to say that I sometimes feel frustrated? I mean, is that... (inaudible)? How does that make you feel?
 You're scared (crosstalk)? [45:15]
 Well, it sounds like there's a fighting spirit there. I mean, when you say you're stubborn, I hear something very... I don't know what the right word is, but... (Crosstalk)
 Or what you don't want.
 You don't want, or what you're afraid is going to be hurtful. I mean, I do hear that. There's a lot of fear. So you get discouraged when you sort of address the fear, but then, you kind of got discouraged (inaudible). [47:17]
 So I'm getting a good day out of you (chuckles).
 (Inaudible). And that's was what you were saying. It's so hard for you to let anybody see your heart (ph). And to allow yourself to (inaudible) your heart. So it looks like you're feeling it today. I wonder how (inaudible) it is for me to be in touch with it while you're here. [48:30]
 You're scared right now of going back there, do you feel?
 Because it feels so powerful?
 And to feel the worry that if you allow yourself to - if you're feeling the hurt that'll lead you to that kind of place, being depressed and sleeping a lot?
 Well, what's the habit you're talking about? I feel like we're talking about your heart. What's the habit?
 You nurse it?
 What seems to be the hiding your heart? (Crosstalk)
 It kind of seems to me like we don't even... This feels somewhat new. I mean, I've seen you be somewhat sad and hurt before, and I look and see those times, but it does feel - I mean, I'm very aware of... I (ph) feel like, connected with you. There's something very real about where you are. And what strikes me about what you say about this to yourself is that... [52:33]
It feels new enough to me like I don't even understand. I feel like I want to know more about the hurt, 'cause it seems to me like you're talking about some way in which you nurse it, or you abuse it. I guess it almost feels like you feel like you should be over it before we even understand it.
 Because what is it (inaudible) admitting (inaudible)? To me? [53:21]
 Because (crosstalk)?
 Oh yeah? (inaudible)
 Like you should - it's your responsibility.
 I guess what I'm picking up on is a lot of disappointment.
 And hurt, and not getting what you need or what was promised, and what your disappointment (inaudible at 54:26)
 But that's a real longing. [56:43]
 But it's really you are to blame, and then what's really striking to me how the anger and the disappointment comes in (inaudible) not with the other. And I think there's something safer about being angry with yourself. It can be paralyzing.
 Well, it sounds like things were pretty volatile and sensitive to going one way of maybe having a measure of control was for you to be the source of the problem. (Inaudible).
 Was you escaped from...
 And were you escaping your own anger as well, at him?
 So I'm thinking, for you to have told me that this therapy was good but not great, you're letting me know that that felt a little risky. I'm wondering, you're letting me know what some of your disappointment is about getting what you hoped for (inaudible). That feels risky. I notice your eyes shifting right now as though (crosstalk).
 You feel guilty?
 Well, so, you turn it on yourself.
 So what happens there? You turn it on yourself. (Inaudible). ...something that feels unsafe about holding on to your disappointment. It seems like there's never been room for you to really have your disappointment when you're angry at somebody. (Inaudible at 62:25).
 Yeah, I know it is. And I know that even if I might say I'd like to (inaudible) you'd like that, but I'm sure that doesn't make it safe or easy. But I guess I just wanted... I'm really filled with a sense of how important that is. (Inaudible) to feel so right to those feelings. [63:39]
 Say what thing?
 Well, if anything, I think you've pleased me, because I feel like it's a point where we can reach (ph). It feels real.
 Real is risky. Well, I can respect that. But I'd hope that you could have some real. (Inaudible). And then, to know what's real for you is... It feels good for you to know that. It feels different than when we're - as we talked about before, kind of spiraling around on something (ph). Maybe it is more tense, that there's something about it being real that's... at least for me, in a sense. [65:46]
 It's clearer. (Inaudible) but that's part of the risk, I think, of being more direct. OK, so this (ph) time work for you? This is going to be good?
 OK. So... Good. [66:11]
 This is Nelson here. And, I have (inaudible at 0:00:21.8) with client (inaudible at 0:00:30.4) Interview 14 with client (inaudible at 0:00:35.3)
 Okay. (inaudible at 0:00:40.2) very unpleasant experience. (inaudible at 0:00:45.7)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. But just something to make the time pass.
 For a long time period (inaudible at 0:01:28.1)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That you want to take off 10 pounds of (inaudible at 0:01:52.4) [0:01:53.2]
 Yeah.
 It feels like you would want to —
 Yeah. (inaudible at 0:02:45.9)
 So once you looked at this like repulsive or —
 Like (inaudible at 0:03:36.6)
 Like you see yourself (inaudible at 0:03:48.3)
 Yeah.
 So if you're going to escape, that's not going to be — [0:04:00.0]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you think this experience can kind of proves how bad you are or -?
 Yeah. (ph)
 Yeah.
 Making (inaudible at 0:06:31.5)
 It sounds like you're saying that here it's like you (inaudible at 0:06:40.1) most of the time or for you to come (inaudible at 0:06:46.5) and (inaudible at 0:06:48.1) nothing is really different. And like —
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know (inaudible at 0:06:56.6)
 Like honestly you (inaudible at 0:06:58.7) change.
 Different but it sounds like you saying to me like (inaudible at 0:07:03.1) like you're sabotaging yourself.
 Yeah.
 Like you were (inaudible at 0:07:27.2) throwing away (inaudible at 0:07:29.6)
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 0:08:51.7)
 (inaudible at 0:08:57.5)
 So I guess the thing that makes you feel uncomfortable is kind of not telling him exactly what your situation (inaudible at 0:09:17.1)
 So you could have done that one thing wrong when you weren't quite sure exactly what you did feel about Drew. [0:09:57.3]
 Yeah. Like part of you thought that wouldn't be so bad. (inaudible at 0:10:08.6)
 Yeah. Okay. And part of you was appalled by all of that.
 Like for her, it was absolutely —
 Beyond the pale.
 And there you sat half thinking yeah, that sounds like an intriguing idea.
 It's like you can't tease (ph) out what the cause of how you were was whether or the relationship was. You don't know whether (inaudible at 0:11:48.6) it was caused by some way you were —
 Yeah. Or whether it had to do with his being married. Like (inaudible at 0:11:58.4) knowing that.
 Yeah. (inaudible at 0:12:06.5)
 Good.
 I'm sure.
 So it sounds like kind of two different things. And one is I shouldn't feel that way about Drew when I feel some way about James. And that's wrong.
 That's bad.
 And the other thing sounds like I'm (inaudible at 0:12:57.9) This happened to me once. It's going to happen to me again. And what am I doing laying myself on the line all over again. [0:13:04.4]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Because you don't know whether it would be the case that it had to do with him or had to do with you.
 So the risks are going to be too great to sort of experiment with that.
 Was that because (inaudible at 0:13:59.6)
 Like he should know about this.
 (inaudible at 0:14:39.6) Let me just tell you what I'm doing. And maybe you can (inaudible at 0:14:46.6) It sounds like you're saying look, if I — the thing that makes me uncomfortable (inaudible at 0:14:51.0) If I were to go with Drew in September, it would be like betraying Drew in some way because I didn't tell him that I had been with James.
 Then that's the thing. I hadn't heard that.
 I just heard well, if it doesn't work it with Drew then I'll try it with James or I'll try it with somebody else.
 But it sounds like now what you're feeling is what I hadn't gotten is somewhat caring for James more.
 And that's really why you (inaudible at 0:15:26.9)
 (inaudible at 0:15:32.4) shoe lying around (inaudible at 0:15:34.5)
 The other man is (inaudible at 0:15:44.5)
 Yeah.
 For?
 But the odd thing to say would be something like not there's no chance but another you could say it would be something like you're second choice.
 So, that's (inaudible at 0:16:50.0)
 Yeah. No. I wasn't saying —
 You should be.
 I was just speaking on from what that would be if you were.
 (inaudible at 0:17:47.5)
 Wait (inaudible at 0:17:59.7) something about what exactly? [0:18:02.5]
 All right, the whole subject. (inaudible at 0:18:06.0)
 So that's sort of like not thinking about a pink elephant, isn't it?
 Yeah.
 Whether you're doing it for him or for you? [0:19:00.5]
 Like your not telling him about James and kind of leading him and kept (inaudible at 0:19:39.0)
 Like some sort of guilty secret. [0:20:06.7]
 (inaudible at 0:20:10.1)
 That won't make (inaudible at 0:20:12.0)
 What do you mean you've gotten yourself into (inaudible at 0:21:19.4)
 Oh, I see. You already led him on so much that like even though he told you in this kind of blatant thing like you're really stuck with it.
 Okay. Sounds like that has some impact on (inaudible at 0:21:39.6)
 Like he was some sort of — some — like you've been trying to pull the wool over a little his eyes and (inaudible at 0:21:55.7)
 Like you think that he would be what?
 Laugh at him like know something (inaudible at 0:23:08.4) [0:23:08.8]
 Yeah. Yeah.
 What's that about? I know you want to be honest.
 And you felt guilty because you were being unfair to him. But now you're saying; I'm going to be unfair to him if I tell him. So, the logic of that suggests, right, that you shouldn't feel guilty. You should feel guilty if you did tell him. But there's something that doesn't sit right with you in that.
 I am right, aren't I? Logically.
 Logically.
 I guess. Yeah.
 So how come you feel guilty anyways? What's that about?
 Like you have bad feelings but those are (inaudible at 0:24:57.8) from the kinds of problems and feeling you were having about (inaudible at 0:25:03.2) relationship. [0:25:04.1]
 It sounds like there's a hangover (inaudible at 0:25:35.6) anger. You angered (inaudible at 0:25:42.0)
 (inaudible at 0:26:10.4) you had left him, he hadn't left you. (inaudible at 0:26:25.4) what did you say (inaudible at 0:26:27.2) like there are kind of hangovers (inaudible at 0:26:31.4)
 Okay.
 On —
 Oh. It was like you perceived him as doing that whether it be (inaudible at 0:27:47.0) I know what you mean. Like you blamed on him that he was stowing away and never coming back.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I thought. Let me tell you what I said (inaudible at 0:28:02.3)
 When James said I'm going out to play basketball. What you heard in the back of your mind was Drew saying I'm going out and never coming back again.
 (inaudible at 0:28:10.5) blamed it on him.
 Who did you blame what on?
 That was your reaction (inaudible at 0:28:19.9) Okay.
 Yeah. Yeah. There were like the whole bunch of loose ends like that and like your feeling so (inaudible at 0:28:33.0) treated Drew for the end and also feeling about how angry that you feel with him towards the end. And I don't know what else but it sounds like there were a bunch of things.
 Sort of unfinished.
 Like there's not much really you could do about them but (inaudible at 0:29:06.5)
 (inaudible at 0:29:27.7)
 Yeah.
 It is dying away (inaudible at 0:29:46.0)
 What's that? You're horrified at yourself? [0:30:02.1]
 Oh, well. (inaudible at 0:30:10.4) going away with Drew but to Alaska.
 So this seems pathetic to you?
 Like then (inaudible at 0:30:47.2) It sounds like that (inaudible at 0:31:11.9) does something to you. [0:31:13.5]
 Like hooks you in or something. Or a question mark; does it -?
 Well like if you weren't so pathetic then you wouldn't feel like you had to lead him on. That you could say hey, I'm shacked up with James. And that's that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay. Like it wasn't that it was great to begin with but it sounds like you really see yourself as having part in a (inaudible at 0:33:12.2) some way or really exacerbated it.
 You were aware.
 Like the blood is really on your hand.
 And it's damn hard to live with.
 You said it.
 Yeah. Right.
 Yeah. It's like you're really — it's almost as if you were responsible for his downfall.
 Yeah.
 That's what made me uncomfortable. It's not really like I have fault because (inaudible at 0:34:33.5) that way to begin with.
 But it's like we made it so much worse. Like you (inaudible at 0:34:41.7)
 Like you really depended on him for —
 Something very important.
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 0:35:52.6) like the things that are special, you were into the — and just special, special to him. Like you're the one that really shared that. [0:36:08.2]
 Okay. You sound like that's contradictory or something. I don't know —
 (inaudible at 0:36:50.5) Yeah. But before and —
 So what? I mean so is that you shouldn't feel so guilty because —
 It's like you — you were like one up or something on him.
 Yeah. Like you had — you were solid and he wasn't.
 We should be stopping.
 (inaudible at 0:38:30.7)
 So (inaudible at 0:38:34.1)
 Is that something in your (inaudible at 0:38:59.7) [0:38:59.8]
 Client 0324-006, session two, 1970; client 0324-006, session two, October 20, 1970. Let me just say about the - I talked to James, and he said as far as he knows there's really, really no chance that anybody will find out anything. He will have someone who will be doing ratings. What will happen is that little segments of various tapes will be taken out, but it would be - it won't, first of all, it would never be anybody that you knew who would be doing the rating.
 And second of all, there would be no identifying information. 
 So they would just know this was a research, someone in James research. They would have - they will never see the names of the people involved. 
 But he felt quite confident about being able to safeguard confidentiality. 
 Yeah I kind of thought like, "Wow, she knows many of these people out running around in the hallway."
 I also wanted to say, I forget to mention this, and I don't know if it would have any impact on you but, I work for a different professor. So you - or I'd work on his project, so you may see me over in HD a fair amount. I have the [writing amount] (ph).
 And in case you're startled by that, that's why I'm there. 
 OK.
 Yeah so like it sounds like during the day, you can do some other things and kind of pull that off, but the minute your other duties are quite over for the day, those things are working just to come and get you whenever you're done.
 It's like, it sounds like much more than feeling shut out, but that like you had nothing to contribute. And you were almost - it was almost like you felt like some kind of freak or pet that had been brought along, and like it really made you feel almost in another world.
 And it was all you could do to keep from getting up and running is what I'm thinking.
 Yeah like you could be unobtrusive and kind of helpful but inside you were, you were really like seething or ...
 The way I'm hearing it, and I need to check this out, is like it was something that you feel is coming from you, but you didn't feel shut out by them. You didn't feel that they were doing that to you. Is that right or was it ...?
 Like she - their saying she's playing waif and she wants our something or other. 
 But like you couldn't - it sounds like you couldn't even, and you can't often, even say that. Say, "No that's not what I want. I want to be in, but I'm really afraid." 
 It makes you bring that farther (ph), it's part of...
 That was how she felt. She couldn't match that. 
 Like either you hit them as too condescending or detached or something like that and not willing, maybe not willing to be involved or as really bowling them over with something very dramatic. 
 And the feeling that's also going to give me is that people are, people feel like you're doing something, or you're like putting them on purpose almost. 
 But like it sounded, just to go back a second, like when you try to get over that gap or that separateness and like say something that would maybe bring you closer, it sounds like it turns out a lot of times it just underlines your feeling of being separate. And plus, like you don't have that energy or that, maybe that wish right now to reach out to people or to pull yourself towards them.
 You mean like day to day stuff that people might say instead of being able to take it, I don't know, as just kind of the medium of exchange hits a cord and you get scared or? 
 It sounds like everything's deadly serious in some way, and you don't ever leave that sort of - it sounds like if you said something it might be a throw away line for them, but from where you are it is serious. And it makes you think of something that you got to go look into or ...
 Yeah because it sounded like you were saying, "OK I've got some of the equipment or traits or temperament" or whatever you said you felt you shared with her, and like that contrast really hurts because you don't, or at least you feel you don't, present yourself at all like that. 
 And like somehow you don't - it sounds like you don't know how to break out of that. Like you're in a different place now in some respects, but ...
 It's like, I don't know, it sounds like some of its simple things or common sense things and that makes it even more embarrassing for you. It's not like OK so you might not be able to deliver a dissertation on, I don't know, a politician or something, you know, whatever the topic is. But it's like the daily bread and butter or whatever of a conversation, you're having trouble doing; like talking about where to shop or whatever and that really, that really makes you feel left out. It's like not having the rudiments to even. 
 You don't have the - what did you say?
 It's like very rare, and it's not - it's very isolated it sounds like because that, speaking in three staff meetings doesn't mean to you well that's the start of something different for me. It just means gee that was nice, but it won't happen again maybe. 
 And just on the first part of what you said, I'm getting - in a couple things, you said I'm getting these like two things that happen. One is OK feeling really cut off or lacking in information or inadequate, incompetent. And that's bad enough, but on top of that is this sinking feeling that you're the one that spun it to yourself. You're the one that's responsible for cutting yourself off. [26:39]
 And that just makes it feel more hopeless it sounds like or ...
 Like here's this weak, unhelpable person they were depicting. It sounds like the only way she was going to get by at all was by being supported or to have a ...
 Well and it sounds like that, that also has some affect on you too.
 Yeah well maybe, like it sounded all too familiar almost. 
 Yeah it really sounds like you've had a very dangerous, well, almost a dangerous creature on your hands, and like it was like shooting a - shooting a gun, one of those tranquilizers guns, into a very, very agitated animal. And the only thing you could do is to just like snuff out that energy for a while.
 And like a couple (ph) in that sounds like there was a feeling well there was nobody to even know about that.
 Like you, like almost like you stopped at your boyfriend's house, and he wasn't there for you. 
 I mean he was there but ...
 Why is that? Why did you say that?
 I mean that may seem like that's a stupid question, but I really wanted to know why you thought it was bizarre or whatever to you. 
 So like ...
 So are you thinking of me looking at it, or are you thinking of you looking at it?
 OK.
 OK. [36:26]
 What's that - is that like a thing that seems to seize you, and once you start on that, you feel like you're going to do something about it. 
 Yeah I was wondering is that a policy of yours not to have sleeping pills around now, or?
 It almost sounds like two different worlds that you're telling about. Like after you got home there, I don't mean like that you went out of control or just kind of blew the whole thing, but it's like something starts to happen, and you're powerless to stop it. You know a lot about the course that it may take because you - it sounds like you've been there a lot of times, and you know about, I don't know, maybe cutting and how much you were going to cut yourself or something like that. But there's something that just, for some reason I don't like the word control here but maybe that's the one to use. It's like you just don't have any power to stop those things when it starts. Does it feel like you're doing it? Do you feel like - oh, I suppose you could call it depersonalized or [some stuff] (ph), which is kind of ...
 So the actions are in some way a controlled outlet. They have a certain amount of a dangerous or whatever feeling to them but ...
 So in some ways it sounds like it's very carefully gauged; what you do, how you'll do it, how far you'll go. It's like a - it sounds like a mixture of something. [44:40]
 It sounds like just, like suddenly like you feel like there's no way to share this with anybody, or at least with your boyfriend, without engulfing him. If feels like no way to say, "Help me" without also adding, "If you don't help me, you're really going to be responsible for what happens to me." 
 And it's like he's saying, "You're too - you or this or your problems are too hard for me to handle. I can't get into this with you at all." 
 So there's an outlet, it sounds like it's cut off. You can't even - OK maybe you try not to be upset or have hysterics or talk about cutting yourself in front of him, but there's also a whole other range of things that you also feel you can't say. Is that what you mean; like you can't even approach any of these subjects? [46:48]
 Yeah like there was no urgency in there. 
 Where going to have to stop. I want to say one thing, which I didn't say last time; I forgot. I got the feeling that you had had this experience when you've gone to see some other people. It's like beating your head against a stone wall or, I don't know, I guess my fantasy is that so you mentioned suicide, so everybody's got to pry into the symptoms or, I don't know, whatever it is. 
 It's very dramatic and nobody listens to you. And like I'm very concerned about that; about if you have any of those feelings, I really want to hear about it. If anything like that happens here.
 I'd really - because I think there are ways to do something about it.
 But like I really, just for myself, appreciate it if somebody can say, "You're not listening, or I might as well be talking to a stone wall." 
 OK.
 Yeah that's, that's exactly - I was feeling a little funny about asking you about a detail about that experience at one point because I had the feeling like it, you know, you must get a lot of those questions because like sometimes I want to know, so I'm just going to ask. 
 Yeah like you ...
 Yeah it's almost like well you could leave your symptom on the table with every little fact and walk out of the room and that would be OK or ...
 Right. 
 The other thing I needed to settle was about the second time. Do I understand that you have a class on Thursday nights, Thursday evening?
 OK what I'd like to do if this would be OK would be to vary when the second time would be.
 Sometimes Wednesday. It's not - sometimes it's not too preferable to come two evenings in a row, but like sometimes Monday and sometimes Wednesday. Is that - would that be OK?
 OK so let's see, what's this? So this week would Wednesday be OK, or would you prefer tomorrow? I can do either this week. [50:36]
 OK.
 No both are OK with me. It's just that sometimes Wednesday I'm not here either.
 And also sometimes people have feelings about having to come two days in a row. So like ...
 OK yeah that's fine with me. So was it 4:30 is when you can come on Monday's right?
 OK. I'm trying to figure out what week it is on (inaudible at 51:52). OK.
 Right, see you then.
 So, [PATIENT NAME], you look like you are doing very well. You look like you got a new haircut, looks like you've been, um.
 Growing it. You look like you lost weight and stuff. You look trim. You look healthy.
 You look thinner since the last time.
 Yeah, no? I haven't seen you since February, so.
 Have you gained weight?
 Well, yknow, the thing is, you don't look, I mean, to me weight is like blood pressure. Yknow, it changes throughout the day and weight changes throughout the days and weeks. Yknow, you've never been obese as far as I've known you and you've never been, yknow, um, sickly thin. So you're always in that normal range, right?
 Anyway, the last time I saw you, you were doing, for the most part, well, still had some excessive worry that you acknowledged was a bit much especially with your kids. But, um, yknow, still some obsessional thoughts about the glasses and we talked about different options. And so at that point we raised the Zoloft from 100 mg to 150. Um, which you have been on religiously since then I guess. The Ativan, half a mg you've been taking twice a day.
 Okay, good, that's better, yeah.
 Okay.
 I don't want you to be taking that like clockwork all the time because.
 I don't want you to get hooked on it.
 That's all right.
 Sertraline.
 Yknow, it's funny. I do have some people who have not done well, as well and so we, they paid the extra few bucks to get the brand.
 Um, well, yknow, that's been an issue and, uh, it depends, like I have some people who pay, yknow, it's a matter of an extra ten, fifteen bucks a month, which is no big deal if, um, if it's a lot of money then you have to weigh that, yknow. You could buy a whole lot of Tums if it's going to be fifty bucks a month or something like that, whatever.
 Okay.
 How about moods, [PATIENT NAME], no depression?
 Over what kind of things?
 Are you, um, what's the story with your husband? He doesn't have a clue yet whether he got the position or not? Is it something that would be like in the next weeks, months, year?
 Really?
 So would they sell the house for you?
 They would be tickled with that.
 Well, yknow, so it's not if, it's just, if you expect to stay married to this guy you gotta move, right?
 Yeah. Now the kids, how old are the kids?
 Oh, so it's not.
 Well, it's not like he's, yknow, in tenth grade or something and that would be hard.
 Right.
 Well.
 Yeah. And I told you that with people who have noticed that seasonal component that we either increase the dosage or add something for the winter months, and then we'd take it away. And it's worked out fine for most people. Um, the question is, yknow, is it that you need more Zoloft or should we add something?
 And that's something that we have to figure out.
 Now in January of this year, beginning of the year, you were not doing well, had some numbness in your face.
 And then we switched back to the Zoloft. And we talked about maybe adding, um, Wellbutrin. I don't know, did you do that at that point or no?
 So that was January.
 And, [PATIENT NAME], you -
 Well, the 150s the highest you've been on, right?
 And we've done BuSpar before with that which.
 Right. Well, I don't know, [PATIENT NAME]. I mean, your guess is as good as mine on this one. Sometimes, yknow, more of the same will improve things. Sometimes it's like, yknow, once your gas tank is full of gas, the more you pour, it just pours out, doesn't do anything, right?
 No, I'm talking about just as terms of the near future here. I mean, like I had a guy who had, he was taking like 400 or 500 mg of Zoloft which is like two or three times what the manufacturer recommends.
 No, no, he wasn't. Um, and we were able to cut it down and we added something else. We could never get it down below 300 though. He never had any problems. But 200 is considered to be the ceiling on that. Now if we go to 200 that could be.
 Yeah, during the winter months, just for the, yknow, couple three months, that could be all you need. Um, probably the easiest thing to do because it's not like we're introducing a new drug and new potential for side effects and it's either gonna have, yknow, no effect, uh, or it'll have a positive effect. Um, and, um, yknow, we'll see, yknow, it comes in 100 mg, so if it doesn't do. So instead of taking one and a half you'd just take two.
 And you can always go back to one and a half if it's too much for you.
 I'm wondering also, yknow, I just thought of this, since you take it every day faithfully what you could even do, you could take 150 one day and 200 the other day and kind of alternate back and forth.
 Yeah, if the 200 is too much for you.
 Now if the 200 doesn't cause any problems and doesn't add anything, there's no point to taking 200 if it doesn't help. At that point, give me a call, we'll try something else. Yknow, we'll add something different to the Zoloft but the quickest and easiest thing to do is just to, um, is just to bump it up and see. If that's all you need.
 Yeah, of course. Of course, you could do that.
 Of course. Um, what we'll do is, um, instead of getting, you do the mail order, instead of getting 135, we'll get 180, which would be for two a day. So worse case, yknow, you get some extras there. Um, but, um, yknow, if you need them you just take them through the winter.
 Oh, morning or night? No.
 No, it shouldn't.
 No, I mean.
 No.
 No, it's not like that at all. So it's just going to, it doesn't really matter. The only time, we tell people to take it at the same time just because, so it becomes a habit and they don't forget it. But, no, it's not like you take it, it's more effective for the first few hours and then peters out. It doesn't happen like that.
 Seasonality with the.
 Yeah. We'll try this and see if it works. What's your sister's name?
 All right. I bumped into somebody.
 No, no, no, I thought there was a woman I saw, I bumped into on the street and I thought it was your sister and, um, she had her name tag, so. No, no, no, this was somewhere else in the western strata out of all places [DEIDENTIFIED], but when you see someone out of context you don't put two and two together. So now I had the advantage that she had a name tag. I didn't have a name tag on me. She said to me, you look familiar to me. I said, and I knew, yknow, and she said, um, how do I know you. I said, um, well, think about it, yknow, you might, yknow, it might come to you. Sometimes it's harder to be around somebody, other people, you don't want to, yknow what I mean, it's embarrassing for some. But, um, so I don't know if she, but I was talking to this other guy for five minutes and then I left and I don't know if it hit her.
 No, it wasn't her.
 I knew it was different than your name. And, um, this is a different name. This name began with an F. I wasn't sure if that was your sister. 
 Kind of heavy?
 Your sister gotten heavier? Really?
 Well, it's interesting.
 It's interesting that your dad had that problem.
 They didn't have GI effects, there's no question about it.
 Yeah, but he's not a quack. He knows.
 That aggravates things, but he's a genuine.
 He had the book 'cause he's like a school kid, he had the book with the pen in there, he was reading and taking notes. He was taking it seriously.
 I think, you know, I'm fond of your dad. I think that, I really would have worries about him, yknow, if your mom passed before him he would be in bad shape.
 So hopefully.
 Oh, but he's got other irons in the fire.
 Well, he trusts you and trusts your mom. But he doesn't trust a whole lot of other people. And he also is a stubborn guy, yknow. So he's going to do what he wants to do. It's gotta make sense to him. Yknow, he's like from the old school. Yknow, whatever, but he'll make his way all right.
 They cut him.
 He's a survivor.
 Well, now that he knows that it stops the bowel problems.
 Of course I wonder if he thinks maybe the Celexa somehow was responsible for that.
 But I'm wondering if he would be more willing or less willing now to go back on.
 I'd be happy to talk to your dad on the telephone. I'd spend as much time as he needs to. 
 I don't read minds.
 All right.
 All right. [PATIENT NAME], does, um, did you decide whether you want to try the generic still or do the brand?
 Yeah.
 Because I can, well, if you have some, I can fax this to them but I have to, you have to decide, I can hold this for a while if you want to give it a, you want to call them and see what the price difference is?
 Well, what do you want me to do?
 For generic?
 So Zoloft.
 No, they won't.
 All right. I've gotta put a note down here.
 So we had our last session on, uh, [DATE], which is about two months, right?
 And you are on Lexapro 10 mg in the evening at that time being treated for major depression. And we cut it down to half tablet with the plan that we try to see if you can get by without medications. Now are you still taking half of the Lexapro or you have altogether stopped?
 When you reduced from Lexapro 10 mg to Lexapro 5 mg, half tablet, what impact did it have on your mood?
 Um-hum.
 So am I hearing that there was a transition of time when you cut down the dosage you felt depressed, but over period of time that depression is gone?
 So overall do you believe that you need any medications for depression because that's the question we are ultimately addressing?
 What's going on?
 Of loss, because bereavement. Is that from the relationship issue, right?
 Because time is the healer. Is she still contacting you these days or she does not? She does?
 She contacts you every day?
 And how do you feel about that?
 It really sounds like that you are having some ambivalence about this relationship.
 However way you made that decision that she cannot be my partner anymore and you had your own reasons -
 Making that degree of decision is more like a divorce -
 Making that decision is one of the hardest thing you do. But however way you reach that point that this is my decision, you need to let that healing process take over though. The way it's going on in your case it looks like there was a big one. You got the treatment, there's a scab trying to heal. And you open it again and the scab is gone and the wound is coming up again and it bleeds again and again and again and again. Because if you have to find some peace and if you have to find some happiness in your life you have to accept the loss as a loss and then go on with your life. What you are doing, what she's doing is not my headache, because she's not my patient. What you are doing, your well-being is my headache because you are my patient.
 Not on a daily basis. Imagine this when husband and wife divorce and if there is no children involved in that, it's relatively easier to find a way and move along. They might not talk for the rest of their life, might not see, once everything's said and done, but if there is I have seen large number of people have children and no matter how the parents divorce, the father remains the father and the mother remains the mother. And most of the cases with the father and mother care for the child may not care for each other, but care for the child and go on with their own happiness. They maintain a friendship, not because they want to be friends, but because that's how they can provide a stable environment for the child. That's a recommendation. They usually don't talk on a daily basis. Only when the child issue comes up, they talk. In your case, number one, that's not an issue. 
 Number two, if you contact every day, even if you have a best friend, forget about your significant other, forget about it, even if you have a very best friend, realistically do you talk to him or her every day?
 Then if you say that she is my partner and I talk to her every day, it makes sense, but if she is not my partner. How come there is daily contact?
 Is it helping you?
 It's hurting you.
 I was not part of the decision when you made the decision that she would be a partner anymore or not.
 My job is you have made a decision, how can I help you to accept the hard reality of life and move on? You are getting stuck, I cannot let that happen.
 Then I will not be doing my job. You know what I mean?
 If I have decided it's over, if I have decided it's over, no, I would not.
 That's right. Is it going to be a piece of cake, no. Will I have some desire to cross that line? You better believe it. But will I cross it, I'll do everything not to cross it.  Simply because, number one, there was a time when I had to make that decision and I made that decision. The line I decided to draw. Once I have drawn the line, if you go back time and again then the very purpose of drawing the line gets defeated. And you are delaying the healing process and in the process you are keeping yourself submerged in a sea of loss and sadness.
 Who likes it? Nobody likes it. You think this is fun? It is not.
 In an ideal situation we'll never have disagreement and we'll just stick together happily ever after. But that's dream land. That's very different from the real land. That's why we have to think, think, think before we draw the line. But once you draw the line, the best thing you can do is respect that line. You blur that line, you will be swinging between what to do and what not to do.  That was the time before that this issue was stopped.  We had that chance.
 You cannot stay in the past, ma'am. You need to go on and look forward. She might have been a very significant person in your life but now she is your past. Let's look for the future.
 Use the past as a teacher so that whatever mistakes we made we do not do it and whatever the right thing we did we repeat it again. But we cannot live in the past. It can be become very, very painful. 
 But my vested interest is it will make my job impossible.  Now I have to put another question in front. We have to make a pact either 10 mg of Lexapro or no mg of Lexapro, 5 mg of Lexapro doesn't make any sense. You are risking your life.  The reason to cut down to 5 mg was not to see what it does to the depression, but to prevent any sort of withdrawal.
 Either go back to 10 and stay on it or stop it. Your call.
 Because what you are doing is you're wasting your money. Clinical data has no support that 5 mg does anything meaningful for an average adult like you.  
 For an average adult like you.
 What I will suggest stop it, but don't throw away your supplies.
 Throw away your supplies. Hang on to it.
 In about, say, ten days to two weeks time we will know for sure that stopping the medicine was the wrong decision or the right decision. Initial a little bit of withdrawal in restlessness, anxiety, that might be there for five, seven days. Don't consider it as a wrong decision. Expect that it will go through the transition. That's why about two weeks from now you should feel that your depression is coming back in a more significant way then we'll need to go back to Lexapro.
 But if that doesn't happen, then you can flush it down the toilet.
 All right.
 Because your diagnosis is major depression recurrent based on how [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] started, I have to be honest with you, I have a hunch that I will get a phone call from you in the near future, let's go back. I just have a hunch. I love to be wrong, but based on my experience I think if [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] was right that your depression is more recurrent, unfortunately I don't have any extra information that I can justify that. But I'm assuming he knew what he was saying when he started treating you.
 You have seen on [DATE] [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 And he didn't explain why he said it was a recurrent depression. Recurrent depression we do not have a cure, but I'd like to be wrong and that you don't need any more medication then about three months from now we might have our last session you might not need me anymore.  
 So the next visit will be three months from now.  [INAUDIBLE] time, if you have any difficulty, call me, okay?  Going somewhere in the summer?
 Good luck with the kind of rain we have.
 Well, you might have to collect it, scoop it up and put it back again.
 Enough is enough, right?  
 [INAUDIBLE] rain again and again. Put the projects for next year.
 Oh.
 Good luck.
 Wow, your own design?
 Wow.
 Okay. Thank you for letting me record your session.
 Take care.
 Thank you, ma'am.
 Uh-huh, bye bye.
 All right, how are you doing?
 You're worried or?
 Okay.
 You've been pretty active all your life?
 Yeah, I know, nine children.
 Osteopenia?
 So you have osteoporosis.  You had that bone scan done?
 DEXA scan, it was done here?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Calcium.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Of course.
 I know.  So the medication I gave you last time you came to me, we increased your Prozac, that didn't do anything.
 It runs, means you're worried or are you constantly flipping like one thought and then you start a whole new thought, you get a different thought?  Is that kind of -
 Well, you live with your four children, right, they are still with you, right?
 So you are just trying to stay away from them?
 Keep a distance.
 And you're still with the tingling and numbness and all?
 Like you told me last time, remember?
 Now because of the pain or the tired?
 How are you sleeping at night?
 But then you do sleep all night?
 Because you're in pain or something?
 Really.
 How are your crying spells, are they any better.  The last time you told me.
 Still forgetful, how's your memory?
 Uh-huh.
 So you're feeling lack of confidence?
 That's something new.
 Do you get lost in familiar places or no?
 Still paranoid?
 How long have you been feeling depressed this bad?
 You're not working anymore are you?
 How long has it been you're not working?
 What kind of job did you have?
 And how long did you have that job?
 And you could not do it because of your legs?
 You probably were too preoccupied, who knows.
 [NAME OTHER] saw you, right?  What do they think about this numbness?  You don't have diabetes or anything, right?
 There is a strong family history of depression?
 She's alive or?
 And wasn't, how about your sister?
 One sister killed herself.  How did she kill herself?
 How old was she?
 [AGE].
 And you do have one more sister?
 Is she on medicine right now?
 Where is she at?
 But you have ten more siblings, there were ten children, right, in the family?
 She's also in Georgia.  Is she on medicine too?  How is she doing?
 Oh really?
 And what about your physical health except for gallbladder and nine deliveries, right, nine?
 What kind of accident was it?
 Oh yeah.
 You don't have a follow up appointment with her?
 Well, you need to maybe make a new check up.  We'll have you come see back her again, sooner than four months, so at least she can address the osteoporosis, see if we need to put you on Fosamax or some kind of medicine for your osteoporosis. I do know how much, how bad it is and that it requires it but.  You still get your periods or not?
 Sometimes women hit menopause and your estrogen levels goes down, then the calcium really shows up bad so.
 Yeah, so, let's just get you with [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] in four months and see if she can put you on some medicine or at least follow you up with that.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 So you stay preoccupied with things.
 That may not be as -
 Have you been taking your Klonopin I gave you?
 What's the name of it?
 How often do you take them?
 Is it Ultram?
 Ultracet.
 Fibromyalgia.
 Everybody has fibromyalgia when they have aches and pains.
 Well, it's like, you know, different muscles and the joints in your body hurt and it goes with the depression and some sleep problems, problems with concentration, forgetfulness but they have some trigger points in some of the areas of the body you're touching causes you to [INAUDIBLE] usually does a detailed examination and then they find the trigger points and that's how it's diagnosed.  It goes with the depression because patients are always in pain or the symptoms, some of the symptoms you are saying, yes, does fit that but you do have a strong family history so that even adds and you could have both, we don't know, time can only tell.  Treatment essentially doesn't make a difference, I mean, I still give patients Prozac and Desyrel or some kind of antidepressant and Trazodone or something to help you sleep at night or some sleep aids and see if that would make any difference but the thing of it is that you are on Prozac since how long you said?
 I'm okay. 
 Sure.
 Yeah. Good. 
 Oh good.
 Uh-huh. Good.
 Mm-hmm.
[0:02:29.9]
 Uh-huh. 
 I see. 
 Mm-hmm. That's good. 
[0:05:12.0]
 Oh, absolutely. Of course. 
 Mm-hmm
[0:06:37.7]
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 [inaudible [00:08:04].4] job thing. 
 You did get a cat.
 Yeah. 
 Isis the cat. 
 Mm-hmm. 
(pause)
 Uh-huh. 
 (laughing)
[0:09:51.9]
 Mm-hmm. 
 Yes. 
 (laughing)
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm.
[0:13:21.7]
 Mm. 
 Do the treatments make it more difficult to get a job in that...
 Oh, okay. 
 I get the sort of (pause) the culminating thing I've been thinking for a bit about, unless I'm misremembering, I don't think you've asked me even about changing to appointments about the beginning or the end of the day. 
 Oh, okay. 
 Okay. 
 Of course I will. I just got busy with [inaudible [00:16:50].7] proposal and...
 Okay. (pause) I knew we talked a little bit about it when it still looked like you might be working at inaudible] [0:17:16.8]. 
 But I clearly completely spaced out of it. 
 Uh-huh.
 Alright I missed the last reference. Zero means? 
 Right.
 I imagine you feel (pause) really frustrated and helpless.
 And also that (pause) you're kind of tentative about expressing that intensity of those feelings in here, like sort of careful to be evenhanded and be careful. 
 I know. 
 Yes.
[0:22:27.4]
 So (pause) I gather part of what you're saying is that if you (pause) at times when you are –if you were to be less tentative and more expressive of your frustration and helplessness, let's say around job stuff, that you would kind of come apart from that in a way that it would take four or five hours, likely as not, to recover from.
 How about mixed? [ph? [00:25:01].8]
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. That would help. 
 Yes. 
 Yeah, I can see that something like that (pause) a late in the day appointment—I mean late enough—would clearly help with, or would make you more flexible, in terms of work possibilities. 
[0:26:06.0]
 Right. I was going to say it would partly help with that in that you would have a big chunk of the day before we met, and it's, in a sense, more pragmatic to be putting yourself back together in the evening than in the morning. 
 You're not sure what?
 Why you don't want to ask me? 
 Right. I am sort of imagining it's because you're anticipating I wouldn't give you an answer, and then (pause) that would be—that would feel bad in some way. 
 As though you would have reached out to me by asking, and then I don't know if you feel hurt or angry or what, but something. 
 I see. 
(very long pause)
[0:29:20.0]
 Sure.
 Uh-huh.
(pause)
[0:30:55.6]
 Uh-huh. 
 Yeah.
 Hmm. 
 Uh-huh. 
(pause) 
[0:33:05.6]
 Especially here. I know that you always—I can see you, and you've been pretty comfortable talking about and thinking about lots of kinds of feelings things like (pause) being angry, feeling less reasonable or reasons about how you're feeling sort of taking up emotional space or... (pause) You're feeling relatively easier about that, I think, here. 
[0:35:22.1]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 I mean it makes me think of things where like you say, "Geez, you're always looking for like negative things or critical things I'm feeling about you." Like, you say this to me. 
And I guess what I'm feeling is sort of along those lines that, "Yeah, there are ways in which I kind of misunderstand (pause) that I'm often more so that this is a place you can sort of hold on to and feel more grounded in a way that lets you put some of these things out there. That then when you leave it's harder to repackage. 
[0:37:00.2]
 Uh-huh. 
 Yeah
[0:37:52.7]
(pause)
 Yeah. I mean if you moved (pause) Is that something you want to talk about? You sort of come up to it and then...
[0:40:28.3]
 Uh-huh. 
 Yeah. 
 This is your life we're talking about. 
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Right. (pause)
[0:43:09.0]
 Well that's good. 
 Yeah.
 I guess that would be the helplessness about choices that you get, not necessarily the choices that you want?
 Yeah. I have to say stop. 
 Yeah. I think I'm going to be able to 4:30. Is that good?
 I can confirm that by the end of the day today, I should know. 
 I could start that next week. 
 If you get a chance, once you get your new Blue Cross number, I tied the mainframe [ph? [00:46:31].7] to that number. 
 Okay. Is the prefix just different?
 Great. 
 You don't have to. I can remember that. 
 So how are you?
 How is life settling down after losing your wife?
 Just not the same.
 In these cases, time is the healer, so.
 You still using your garage for your workshop?
 If there's a breeze that would be nice.
 Can you blow you off if there is a tornado.
 How about, how are the kids?
 The boy was giving you grief?
 Had he had any kind of psychiatric issues before?
 Oh, I didn't know that.
 In [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 In [DEIDENTIFIED], oh, okay.
 Is that why his mom was so blindly supportive of him?
 Is he living with you now or is he out on his own?
 How about your social life?
 You said he was with you?
 How old is he?
 That should have been fun for you.
 What kind of car did you pick up?
 So why Kentucky?
 What's so special about the car that you have to go all the way?
 Really. They have those here too, right?
 Do they sell anything good?
 I saw some time ago about two or three months ago a funny ad on the TV. There as a town of about six hundred or eiht hundred people in California was on sale. The town was on sale.
 That's right. And they're not asking a ton of money. I think one point five million or something like that. I said how could there be a town on sale. I never heard anything like that.
 Yeah, that's right.
 Do you fix them up and sell them or do you just?
 Well, yknow, given that you are all by yourself at home after your wife's demise it may not be a bad idea to be busy.
 In the days, so called idle brain is devil's workshop.
 But you also have to keep it in mind, sir, life is not all work.
 Work is for life. And hence you need to have a life as well, sir.
 Did you get any girlfriend of something?
 Did you meet anybody or is too soon?
 Tell me why not.
 Right. Does she have a good head on her shoulder?
 That age, [AGE], can be a little bit tricky age.
 If you guide them right, fine, turn out just fine. But if they go in the wrong channel. But at least it will be somebody at your home. That was my concern that you are such a family man and my major problem was that all along you had depression and then you talked about your wife, we talked about that, there's some bitterness.
 But I was concerned that given you being a Caucasian male in your age, um, things can spiral out of hand real quick.
 I used to see you every three months, now I'm seeing you more frequently because I want to keep an eye on you.
 Well I wish I could share everything that my patients say. I have to see in between the lines.
 I'm glad that you are not crying anymore. I'm glad that you are getting the physical and emotional energy to do your stuff because there is a brief time you stopped doing your stuff. That made me nervous. But still I have to keep an eye on you, sir.
 Your age, your sex, being Caucasian, just lost your wife, had a chronic depression, these are going against your safety. 
 And that's why I need to keep an eye on you.
 It depends on your mind.
 If you keep your mind at [AGE] or you keep your mind at [AGE].
 That's good. Way to go.
 Tell me about it. I feel that way too.
 However, for last visit, which was [DATE] about a month ago, you were on Wellbutrin XL 300 mg in the morning.
 Are you taking it regularly?
 What is it doing or not doing for you, sir?
 Is it helping you or not helping you?
 You are taking the Paxil 40 in the morning?
 And your trazodone was reduced to 150 mg at bedtime, right?
 The one that at nighttime?
 Do you sleep at night?
 How many hours are you getting?
 Whoa, I'm jealous of you, sir. I wish I could get that much sleep.
 How does that work?
 Do you need any prescriptions today?
 Which does come in 150 mg, you know that, right?
 I don't know because the last prescription I wrote Wellbutrin, Paxil, and trazodone was in March. So have you been getting your meds from VA now or do I need to write or what do you want to do?
 Okay. I'll write all the three prescriptions.
 At least for the first year and as of when you reach the -
 The way we can say, sir, we should never forget our past because past is our best teacher.
 But let's not live in the past.
 I understand.
 But you cannot make any changes and that's why let's not look back.
 Go forward.
 Ask for it.
 Go to her grave, sit down, and ask for her.
 Absolutely. Yknow, some people believe that happens, some people believe it doesn't happen, who cares who's right or wrong as long as you get your peace.
 I'm sorry I couldn't do the best thing I could have. Maybe next time when we meet I'll do it right.
 You're a good man, sir. That's her looking back. And, again, as many times I have told you I'm sorry for your loss, but let's look forward.
 You don't have a choice.
 Right. Maybe you can make a little change tomorrow if you use, you start as a teacher.
 That's true.
 Good luck.
 Pleasure meeting you, sir. It was not a session for you, but it was a session for me as well. I thank you for letting me record our conversation.
 I'll see you back in a month.
 You be good.
 Yes I did.
 Sorry [I kept you] (ph) waiting.
 Oh, yes?
 Yes.
 I think you had mentioned...
 ...(inaudible) that it wasn't helping.
 (inaudible)
 How little of sleep are you getting?
 Yes. (inaudible)
 Yes. Right. (inaudible)
 Yes. Was it that bad, recently? Two or three hours?
 Okay.
 Yes.
 Yes. I mean, this is one of the biggest ongoing issues, right (ph)? [00:03:03]
 Well, what comes to mind about this?
 Right.
 Right. Yes.
 How long is it before Dave (ph) gets home? I mean, how big (ph) is -
 And, are we talking about like - it doesn't sound like binging (ph) amounts of chocolate and wine. It just sounds like some chocolate and wine. Is that right?
 I'm not saying that's good, that's how you want it to be...
 I'm just trying to understand the nature - [00:06:00]
 (inaudible)
 Oh.
 Yes. Sure.
 That sounds like a nice idea. (chuckles) (inaudible) In that vein, though, do you have any further thought about therapy making things worse? Or how it would be? Or [what's going] (ph) to be going on there? [00:08:05]
 Bail (ph).
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Right. [00:09:02]
 Right.
 [There was something I could say - ] (ph) - that I was thinking I could say, about what you said. (inaudible) I'm just not sure any of them (ph) are helpful. Like, for example, it strikes me that things have sort of reversed, where you feel distracted at work, sleepy, or lacking motivation but, when it's time to rest or relax at home and head towards bed, you feel, it sounds like, activated (ph) and anxious and unable to let go of things. [00:10:10] [You would,] (ph) sort of...
 ...want it the other way around, I would think. Or, you know, the chocolate and wine and that eating (ph), (inaudible) both like a way of trying to get a vacation, or a break, from the voice you were referring to, that tyrannical and critical - on the way - that you hear on the way home from work. (inaudible) other times, but...
 ...(inaudible) the way home. I can imagine that it's both a (inaudible) break from that and something you also know is going to make you feel bad, too. So it's like self-flagellation and vacation, at the same time. [00:11:01]
 And, (pause [00:11:05] to 00:11:23) I guess, I don't know. It occurs to me that, maybe, therapy can feel like both those things as well, in that - I mean, I certainly hope that there are times when you feel supported or like things aren't as bad, or you aren't as bad, more specifically, as you make yourself out to be, in a way that feels good. [00:12:01] Though, also, I would imagine that talking about things that hurt and are painful, or times when you feel critical of yourself, or getting upset, or wanting help, or things like that - which I know is much less than it used to be, but I would imagine (inaudible), can be quite painful about (ph) therapy.
 So (pause) [I guess the other thing] (ph) probably, because I (inaudible) (chuckles) - I'm listening and thinking about what you're saying, but I'm yet sure what to say about it, or how to put it together, such that I think it would be helpful or [be made] (ph) better (inaudible) what's going on, if (ph) that makes sense. [00:13:14]
 I guess (pause) - I don't know. [00:14:10] One thing that does occur to me is, maybe one thing you're often waiting for or wanting, in here, which I can understand, is for me to say something that helps put me between you and this really, quite tyrannical, critical voice that you have, that would (inaudible) help protect you from it, or give you [some distance] (ph) from it, or reassure you that isn't (ph) true, because it's so pervasive (ph) and so painful. [00:15:10] And so, it shuts you down so much. What do you think?
 (chuckles)
 Do you think it's [the subject] (ph) or being tired, or some combination?
 Yes. [00:16:00] (pause) Yes, maybe you're getting beat up, or in fear of getting beat up this way, most of the time. And, when you're at work, [it's to] (ph) do with usually the quality of your work or, sometimes, [depending on the] (ph) context, from (ph) the person (inaudible) - Like, at the moment, I think it's probably more in terms of your expectations and frustrations with yourself. And, then at home, it's like, I would guess, more along the lines of, "How the hell can you just feel like you deserve to relax?" [00:17:09]
 Or let yourself think you need to eat. (ph) And (pause) -
 Yes. I guess I would imagine, to answer the question "wasn't that relaxing enough?", the answer is probably no. I may (ph) be wrong but, I would imagine that when you're doing the things that feel like distractions, or not what you should be doing, (inaudible) - [00:19:05]
 Like, a strategy that might work for dealing with one way that you distract yourself, wouldn't work for the next?
 Well, I think you, kind of, started rolling there. Like you, kind of, started in on yourself, just there, just now. And, so, I'm trying to think about how come, what set that off? (inaudible) I think you just, sort of, had a little tirade; "It's not even the same goddamn thing. What the hell am I doing? I do this one, then I do that one, then I do this other one. I'm so screwed up. I can't come up with a strategy because I keep changing things and, maybe, strategizing (inaudible) isn't (ph) even the way to go." [00:22:19] It sounded - not in a, sort of, huge way but,...
 ...nonetheless, like a tirade. And (pause [00:22:35] to 00:23:33) - Yes, I guess I'm wondering about what might have set it off, you know?
 Right.
 Sure. And (ph) I understand.
 But I wonder (ph) - (pause [00:26:32] to 00:26:56) I wonder if part of the reason you do the tirades (ph) here, like just now - [00:27:13] I wonder if there's, really, like a two-fold (ph) reason there. One of which is because its, in a certain way, almost protective; it pre-empts something that could go bad between you and I. Like, you know, "I'm supportive" or "I'm nice" or "We [connect around] (ph) something." Like, "Maybe that's dangerous." [00:28:01] You have more to lose, or you'd be in a more vulnerable position. And, (pause) if you're beating up on yourself, it creates some distance in a way, or (inaudible) -
 (chuckles) Okay.
 Yes.
 Right. I, absolutely, have encouraged you many times, and will continue to, I guess. But say what's on your mind. So you're (ph) absolutely right about that conclusion. (chuckles)
 And I take your point, that 90 percent of the time you'd (ph) be beating up on yourself in that way, whether you were here or sitting in your car, sitting in your office, watching TV. [00:30:00] I completely may have the wrong idea about it, but I guess, I do maintain that I think there is some depth, of some kind, and (ph) something going on. We may find I'm wrong; I'm open to that possibility. But I'm still suspecting I'm not. (chuckles)
 And (pause) I don't believe, so much, in psychological inertia (ph). [00:31:08] I mean, there are certain cases where, I think, that's the (ph) most important mechanism, but relatively few.
 Like if somebody has an addiction or if - like a drug addiction, or somebody has a fairly (ph) severe OCD, or with certain, severe phobias, there is a kind of, almost, physiological feeling, sticking (ph) us to that page (ph), where - you know, quite independent of the context, I guess, is what I mean. [00:32:01] There's a, sort of, real trajectory to the behavior, like suddenly (inaudible) OCD. But, in one context, another context, another context, and this person or that person, at this time of day or that time of day. The obsessions and compulsions are like (inaudible) drug addiction (inaudible) obvious. But, sure, maybe taking a heroin addict out of their familiar environment can help a little bit but - relative to what the (inaudible) to do, probably not a lot. In those cases, the physical and psychological context matters, but its warped (ph) by the, kind of, what I'm calling "psychological inertia", like the strength [in a] (ph) habit, per se. [00:33:05]
 That's, really, what I mean, I guess, as I continue to talk about it. Like the, sort of, strength of the habit, itself. But I don't think that's, usually, a dominant feature [of this] (ph) thing. I guess, for example, with you, it does one thing to you when you're at work, and something else when you're at home, in the evening. Those, maybe, relate to the same tendency to want (ph) to be beating yourself up, but it is operating in different ways (ph). [00:34:04]
 So, yes, I probably, at least for the moment, don't (pause) - [00:35:03] and, in fact (ph), what you say is right, in a sense that I'm not seeing (ph) to what's going on in the right way, now. But, I guess, I also suspect that there is something more going on than this just being such an ingrained habit, that it's just going (ph) to happen, kind of irrespective of other psychological factors and (ph) relation to context. (pause [00:35:32] to 00:36:05) But you may be right, it may not be that deep. (chuckles)
 There (ph) may be something going on [but - yes.] (ph) (pause [00:36:12] to 00:37:03) [And, I think, as] (ph) another factor, is it seems to be different (ph) things, at different times, with work. In grad school, (inaudible) - we were talking about it (inaudible) working, seemed to - seemed to, I think, [feel, if you] (ph) think about it (inaudible) you didn't see the pattern of having felt that way a lot. But you seem to feel it more, due to the pointlessness of the work...
 ...and your anger at your advisor.
 So (ph) your frustration has (ph) been directed that way, whereas now, it seems more directed - not that it was, entirely, not directed this way before, but that its, relatively, more directed at your own...
 ...lousiness. (ph)
 Right.
 Sure.
 Right, [I would follow] (ph) like, a lot of it (ph) may not be super, conceptually, difficult.
 But, if there's a ton of material being thrown at you...
 ...like some familiarity (ph) (chuckles)...
 ...helps you digest it faster.
 Yes.
 Right.
 Yes.
 [Me either] (ph). Yes.
 Yes. Yes.
 Right.
 Yes. Yes.
 It sounds like you were (ph) trying to do something that does have a lot of moving parts, and is the sort of thing that, once you can do it and have been doing it for a while, you may forget how much there was to learn to be able to do it.
 Yes.
 Right. Right.
 Yes. (ph)
 Sure.
 (chuckles) Sure.
 Sure, of course. I would, also, imagine - I mean, this is a - (inaudible) this is a new job.
 This is, probably, one of the first things you've been asked to do.
 You want to do it well. You're really worried, given how things have gone at past jobs, that...
 ...this is going to go south.
 And here you are, being asked to perform, one of the first times through. There's all the history, there's just the (ph) worry about performance, that would be, probably, for most people at a new job, there's an inherent (ph) complexity with (ph) what you're doing. So (ph) you're frustrated with yourself? Yes, I mean, I guess, its - [00:44:01] [as we begin to unpack it] (ph), it doesn't sound surprising that it would be hard to stay with the work.
 There's so much loaded (ph) into it. [I really think it's crazy that it's so much.] (ph)
 Right, which is, just, a really unfortunate consequence of the way things work. Its (ph) not, I don't think, any kind of way to motivate yourself to be different about it.
 Oh, I think you're - I mean, like first (ph) -
 I think you're plenty motivated to be different about it. I don't think you need any more motivation. it's a little bit like (pause) - [00:45:00]
 I think, where I'm going with this, is you need more patience and more ease with yourself around this, not more motivation. You need a, "It's okay if I try to take it a little easier here or let myself take a deep breath or not feel like such a loser for 75 minutes, or however many minutes, doing something else. That's all, still, okay. I'm dealing with quite a lot here, and these things are efforts. I'm trying to make something [that is] (ph) easier."
 Don't worry about it. I mean, (inaudible) [00:46:00] But you're not a little kid. But I think the way this reacts, with this much emotionally at stake internally, can have some of the qualities of how a kid reacts. Like when [you've got a kid, in my analogy] (ph) - like, you've got a four and half year old interviewing for some competitive kindergarten. There was an article, a few years ago, about how private (ph) kindergartens - the admissions for kindergartens for private - like the private schools around here, is ridiculously competitive.
And a five year old really wants to do well, she goes in, is getting ready for their day - they do day-long interviews because they feel like the kids can take it for a half an hour, an hour, but if you have a kid all day - its not like they [can grill the kid all day] (ph) -
 But they have them spend the whole day at school, right? (ph) And so, [the five year old is] (ph) nervous, wants to do well, (inaudible) - telling the kid how much is riding on this, and how important it is, and how much they really have to do their very best, if they're already nervous about it, is (ph) only counterproductive. [00:47:07] Tell the kid, "Its (ph) fine." You love them anyway. They have a lot to be proud of. Just do their best. It will be okay. Much more the way to go.
I mean, I think, inherently, (ph) the kid is already anxious and stressed out and its already a difficult task. Keeping more pressure on them isn't going to motivate them in any useful way; it's going to freak them out. And, I think - (inaudible)
 I'm sure you do, yes. (chuckles) I'm, probably, (ph) not saying anything you hadn't thought of. But (inaudible) true. We should stop for now.
 (inaudible)
 Oh, that's right. You did tell me. I'm sorry. (inaudible)
 No problem.
 Okay so I just wanted to check up and see how things are coming along with you since we talked last.
 Well, there's a lot of over lap in symptoms what you call it whether it's schizophrenia or bipolar.  It over lapse in the eyes of the beholder -
 Um, you've been certainly treated for schizophrenia for years and years and actually the fact that you've augmented your antipsychotic medication with Depakote would actually cover that because bipolar, uh, treatment includes Depakote.
 So that is uh, a mood stabilizer anyhow and I'm assuming you've been taking your, your pills regularly?
 Okay -
 Are you on the pain pills or off the pain pills right now?
 Because I, I guess my way of looking at things is that you have this underlined illness, whatever you want to call it and, and these thoughts that you get and, and things that we've dealt with over time and I would almost bet that everytime you take that underline illness and then add pain pills, some of which are narcotics, which, which kind of cloud up and mess up your mind.  That it can bring out the, the symptoms from the underlying illness and make it get worse.
 So, I, I would caution uh, the, it's, it's a tough balance that we'd have to do.
 I'm not sure I understand?
 I don't know that, that's a tall order.  I don't know that there's any guarantee.  You're asking me for a way to stay on your narcotics for pain and, and yet not have them cause what they cause and I, I think that's a better question to ask to your pain doctor -
 Who actually left me a message saying that he was concerned about some of the effects that he's been seeing from some of the pain pills.  [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] -
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] -
 He was concerned about, he had prescribed pain pills and he had seen some negative effects -
 With your mood and your psychiatric wellbeing and, and he was, I didn't talk to him.  He just left me a message saying here's what happened.  I prescribed the pills, this is what it caused I'm, I'm kind of hesitant because I know it can cause that.
 The, the mood -
 The mood symptoms and the thought symptoms.  It can bring those things out.
 Yeah.
 I agree, I agree.
 There is an underlying illness and then different things that happen as you go through life, bring it out more, stress in your life, the family -
 Other pills, other things that are in your body, different -
 Things can make it or have an effect on it.  Can make it come out more or less.
 I, oh, I think knowing what, knowing what I know about pain pills and knowing what your pain doctor left me the message about that that's dangerous.  That, that's a dangerous way to go on account of what it might do to your psychiatric wellbeing.
 I'd feel rich if I rob a bank.
 And, and I'd feel happy if I'd get high on dope but -
 Just because you feel something doesn't make it right.
 That's what the pain doctor needs to talk to you about.
 There's, there's -
 Physical therapy -
 There's nonnarcotic pills, there's exercises, there's all kinds of things that you can do but this is not a question of, gee I'm just going to take whatever makes me feel good, you know, or else I'd be showing up, up, on cocaine to work everyday and say "gee I feel high."  But you know, you can't say just because something makes you feel good that makes it right.  We have to go through life and, and except and understand and deal with some of the pain too.  Whether it's emotional or whether it's physical.  We can't always take the chance of popping a pill to uh, to make everything go away and I deal with this everyday.  You know, I work up at the hospital and on the Detox Unit and I'll tell you what half the, probably more than half the people who come in the hospital that are suicidal.  They're having real bad mood problems.  The time when they said they're suicidal was when they were high on something or drunk on something.  It's those substances that makes everything get worse and we have to get people and, and I'm afraid you fall in to that category.  We have to get them off of these psychoactive mind altering substances because they can send them spiraling in the wrong direction.
 Where would you live?
 Now has that pain doctor discussed some of these same kind of things with you?
 So what does he have you taking now a days?
 And how often are you taking that?
 So does that mean you're taking four doses a day?
 And like I said "I don't know how much better you can do mentally, feeling these things that you're describing."  I don't know how much better you're ever going to do as long as you are on pain pills.  That, there's just one thing that counter acts the other.  Are you currently applying to get back with disability?
 And I don't care who you are, because of what I see on, on this Detox Unit.  There comes a time where you can't stay on pain medicine forever.  The pains going to be there with or without the pain medication because I see people addicted to high doses of pain pills and all they want is more pain pills because they say they're still in pain.
 So, at, at some point enough is enough.  You treat it for uh, how long you need to treat it as, as best as you can.  But you have to weigh the pros and cons.  Is that the same doctor that called me that's giving you the prescriptions now?
 So he's keeping an eye on things?
 Um-hum and he said he gave you some shots too?
 Okay, well maybe that helps too.
 You know, as far as living at home, if you had a million dollars would, would you be at home or would you be -
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Okay, what, what do you with that?
 Well, you're on the pain pills right now so is, is the mood swing problem any better right now than it was before or is it any worse?
 No, no you, you said that "you're having trouble with mood swings."
 That's the first thing you said when you came in -
 Then, then you said "but when I take my pain pills I feel great, I feel good, it makes me happier."  So well you're on the pain pills now are, are you feeling like those mood swings are gone and you feel happier or where are we at right now?
 Because if, if we're at that level place I don't know if there's any necessary indication for use to go changing the, the prescriptions.  You asked if there's a pill that will work better when I'm on pain pills.  I don't know that ones better than the other.
 When you say being, having the pain under control being on this combination things are fairly level, I'm more inclined to not rock the boat.  Then to go trying all kinds of different things, um, I was just wondering though, have, have you ever been on Lithium?
 Because that's another mood stabilizer -
 It's an alternative to Depakote.
 Hum-um, there's just differences, there's not one worse than the other, they're, they're just different.  Depakote goes through the liver, Lithium goes more through the kidneys.  Depakote probably causes more weight gain and sedation, Lithium causes tremors and diarrhea.  So, it's just different potential side effects.
 Well you should have blood tests with Depakote as well -
 So it's about the same.
 If what would get better or worse?
 And you said, you said it both ways.  You said that "the Vicodin makes you happy."
 [INAUDIBLE].
 We could try switching you to Lithium and see if it helps the mood swings any better.  It's, it's equally as beneficial as the Depakote that you've been on.
 If you want -
 To try that.
 No.
 No, no.  Um, what, what are you feel in terms of the Stelazine.  I, I know you've tried different things there -
 Well it is, when I look back you've been on Seroquel, Zyprexa, Geodon, Abilify, and I want to say Respirdal?
 So, you've basically been on most of the newer ones -
 And you've always done better on the older one?
 So, that is what it's for.  I, I think changing the Depakote over to Lithium would be the, the place to start.  But I, I think, I would hang my hat more on figuring out this thing with the pain pills.
 There, there is a Detox Unit at [DEIDENTIFIED] yeah.  Um, but you can always call them and talk to them and get, get uh, bed in there.  Um on the other hand I don't want to step on anybody's toes.  You may want to talk to the doctor who's working with you on this in the first place.
 Either one of those are an option.
 Oh, you bet.
 So instead of taking the Depakote.  I'm going to have you take the Lithium twice a day and then we'll keep you on the Stelazine.
 So in terms of refills I want to say we, we need the Stelazine refilled and are you still getting the three months at a time and you're still taking three a day like, like we had you on?
 Okay, you send those through the mail or do you fill them locally?
 Do you have enough time to do that right now?
 Stelazine -
 Okay.  I think I'll just give you the Lithium through the mail and you can stick with the Depakote for another week or so and, and then switch.  I don't, I don't see -
 Any emergency after you've been on it for all this time.
 Well, we, we can, we can do that -
 Okay.
 Okay, so three months of Stelazine I'm going to give you here to send in and then -
 Why don't I just give you a couple of refills on Lithium to get locally, just -
 Can you do it a couple of times locally when you first start.
 And I'll touch base with you in, we'll say, six to eight weeks after you've had a chance to meet the pain doc and try this long enough to get it in your system.
 You okay on, you've got to be okay on Cogentin?
 You don't even take them everyday right?
 So take one, that'll give you a years worth last time, so you're -
 [INAUDIBLE].  Okay, so Stelazine is written here and I'll give you that.  Lithium twice a day and I'll just give you a couple of refills for the local.  Are you doing any counseling these days?
 You still are?
 Right and you still have your insurance now right?
 Okay, here.  So, tell [NAME OTHER] to put us down for about six weeks or so late, late July.
 I'm going to give you these prescriptions and see how the switch works for you.
 So ones for the mail and ones for local.
 Okay.
 You take care.
 Stay well, well see you soon.
 Bye.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 You're not a bad person.
 Ever.  Are you?
 Bad?
 I mean, you're not a criminal, or -
 Not stealing, are you?
CG: No, she threatens to hurt people, though.
 Um-hum.  That's what she might say, but she'd never do it.
CG: No.  I hope she wouldn't.  But she says it.
 You what?
 Well, tell me what your mood swings are like, [PATIENT NAME].
 Sure.
CG: Let her talk to you about herself.  And, um, I was going to tell you about that couch, remember when [NAME OTHER] called.  I called, her mother's called, in the, before her appointments and hearing things, you know, that she would do and had done.  Then she would go and tell him the opposite, you know, that we were lying on her.  And he believed her.
 And you're, pretty angry about that?
CG: She, um -
 So you're feeling guilty.
CG: Just because she wasn't there.  And I'm glad she wasn't.  Because if she had been, she would have been at the hospital with us when it happened.  And that would have been even worse.
 You somehow think -
 You somehow think things might have been, ended up different?
 All right.  But she's angry.
CG: Yeah, she was.
 To alter the outcome so that he would be alive?
 What do you, does that mean.  Either way?  What could you have possibly have done?
 What does that mean?
 Do you really think he would have wanted you there?  I've changed -
CG: I don't think he would have wanted her there at that time.
 And that was good.  I knew you were close.  But when you're taking you last breath, it'd different.
CG: When you were very close.  [INAUDIBLE].  We did everything together.
 That was then, though.  He wasn't dying then.  People often die in the middle of the night when there's nobody around.  They often will die after everybody leaves.  I think there's a reason for that.  It's not something that you want your loved ones to remember.
 That's sad.
CG: It will be there until the day I die.
 Not if, not if he loved you.
CG: And he did.
 What you're, what she's describing is a pleasant event, seeing her son?  No.  It's a traumatic event.
CG: Um-hum.
 Why would we wish that on you?
 That's your guilt feelings.  They're not unusual.  And you not went to the emergency room, you'd feel bad at not having gone.
 Just because that's the thing to do.
CG: As far as getting over losing someone, you never get over it.
 What do you want done for you, [PATIENT NAME]?
 What do you want?  Do you know what you want?
 Well, what is it that you need?
 But the talking is, that he had an idea that you needed to be talking to other people, too.  It's the same thing.  It's expressing your feelings in an appropriate manner.
 Well, who do you talk to now?
 Why?
 Oh.
 Isn't she -
 Why?
 Well, that's two people I hear that you can talk to.  Who else?
 You've got three people.
CG: Like her mom is in worse shape than she is.
 If you continue to keep all these feelings in and don't talk about them, you mean?
CG: Yes, it does hurt.  My son that died was her mother's father.  And she's never gotten over it.
 Feel like you should go?  You feel like what?
 But you, yourself, said he's not there.
CG: We should go back to the, uh, morning she came in the house after he had passed away.  When she didn't speak to anybody and didn't say a word.
 Um-hum.
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 You cry much now?
 Do you write down much in your feelings journal?
CG: And she's got a journal, too.
 Well, we, um, I mean, here for the mood problems.  And there are sometime we certainly need to look at addressing that.  It's not just your anxiety.
CG: It's [INAUDIBLE] take what I need.  Uh -
 What other, um, I know she's been on a number of different medicines over the years.  What other, uh, has she been okay Depakote?
CG: Um, I don't know.
 Well.  Yeah, I know we dealt with -
CG: I just thought she said that one, when she takes the Klonopin it helps her right then.
 They will in six hours, thereabout.  They only last -
 Again, you said originally wanted Klonopin, you said you took them before and they helped, right?  But they're not now?  So we need to find, or stop those, try something different.  Xanax helps other people that Klonopin doesn't help.
 Or Ativan.  Have you taken that?
 Why?
 Okay, you've not taken -
 Have you taken Xanax?
 Or [INAUDIBLE]?
 So Xanax -
 What Neurontin?  Have you ever taken that?  Or gabapentin?
 Well, what we'll, what we'll probably want to do with this is give her something to help her even her mood.  That would be like a Neurontin that helps, a script for anxiety and you take it a few times a day.  And then you take the Xanax as needed in addition to that.
CG: Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Got the same boyfriend?
CG: No.
 Where'd he go?  Did you break it off?
 Yeah.  What are you going to do this summer?  You guys getting away, or?
 A lot of -
 Where?
 Good morning.
 Oh man. I was up late. I'm okay.
 (inaudible) other than running (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
(PAUSE)
 Yeah
(PAUSE)
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. I see.
 Yeah. [00:09:15]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [00:10:59]
 I see. [00:11:53]
 You mean, when you were out? [00:13:00]
 Yeah it sounds like you're sort of talking to me kind of as a part of yourself that really almost can't believe how profound the effects of some of the seemingly fairly small (PAUSE) events are, such as hearing from Jack last night.
 So okay, it seems to me there are three things that you're struck by or that (PAUSE) seem sort of (inaudible at 00:16:25).
 I'm just sort of cataloguing here.
 The first of which is the one we were talking about last week to do with (PAUSE) I guess specifically, you're kind of setting some of this stuff up. Like, you're... Contrary to what you had thought previously, kind of digging your heels in or provoking these kind of situations, like having some subconscious sort of control or responsibility. This would be thing one that seems to really have struck you... [00:17:19]
 ...about this, recently. Thing two is yesterday night like how much... And there have been other things like this that I can remember. You know, one sort of (PAUSE) positive response from somebody or connected response from somebody...
 You know, saying, "Hey. We're still here. You're still on our mind. We still want you," how much that can make a difference. I think there were times like that a while ago with Phil as well (inaudible) [00:18:05]
 Yeah. Okay.
 But how much...
 That's number two. And number three is how much, I mean, this isn't exactly new one but I feel like you're struck again by the importance of it. How much the sort of Jefferey (ph) state really can take over. (PAUSE) Which, you know, which it really, I mean it has a lot lately, but especially you're saying yesterday until 7:30. [00:18:57]
 (inaudible at 00:19:39)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 (LAUGHTER)
 Okay. [00:22:00]
 Yeah I do.
 Yeah it seems as though the changes involved (PAUSE) not (PAUSE) being to the good a little more contact sensitive and how you're taken over by it. [00:23:15]
In other words, rather than being taken over no matter where you are, what's going on, what you're doing, you're, you know, you're more taken over at home when it comes to thinking about work and stuff. Like Jennie (ph) can pull you out of it, being away with she and your friends pulled out of it a little bit. And also, I think, well there's the other direction as well. There's being away and being away from it and yet still knowing it's there. That's actually a bit different in that...
 ...I think it's often cut both ways but when you're in it, there's no out of it and when you're out of it, there's no connection with being in it. [00:24:01]
And (PAUSE) I think that relates to what you're saying now. You're not in it right now, I don't think but you're, you're somewhat in touch with it. So there's a little more like co-mingling but, you know, clearly (PAUSE) what's missing (PAUSE) what still feels like, I guess really isn't you is (PAUSE) is when you're really in it and why you'd want to be that way. Like... [00:24:59]
 Well that's a bit of a different thing. I think there...
 ...you've been (PAUSE) sort of pushing, probing, testing the relationship.
 I think part of the probing with me with the money is also (PAUSE) to put me in the situation that you're so often in. [00:30:11]
 Where, you know, waiting, I don't really know what the circumstances are. There's not much I can really do about it unless I just walk away.
 Yeah I'm not saying I'm feeling the same thing.
 But I think you're...
 I think that's kind of part of the set up.
 Well that's the kind of thing we're here to look at.
 And...
 And I guess (PAUSE) I think it's sounds like the way it feels to you is as though... I'm not saying this is how it is or how it feels to me but with how bad you feel about it, it seems to me you're kind of feeling like you're sort of fucking me over to see how I'll deal with it or what I'll do.
 That's my impression of how it feels to you and (inaudible at 00:32:32).
 Yeah. [00:33:01]
 I know. Yeah.
 It's a big gulf. [00:33:33]
 Right. So... (PAUSE) Maybe the (PAUSE) sort of... (PAUSE) If I think about the sort of world that that one part is living in, the sort of fucking me over part, I imagine it's a world where that goes both ways, where you can be coming here for months and months and trying and not getting anywhere with this. [00:35:09]
And, you know, getting up and doing your part and paying money sort of or, you know, you know what I mean. And, you know, and still get nothing. Which is how you felt at some moments recently.
 And in that case, you're getting, I'm fucking you over. (PAUSE) I think is how it...
 ...feels at that level.
 Yeah. (PAUSE) And so I think for that part of you it's sort of (PAUSE) not the right metaphor but, it is sort of dog eat dog in that way where... [00:36:00]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. And it's like, you may be sort of probing on the verge of doing that to somebody else. They may be doing that to you...
 But that's the, I think, the sum. Yeah.
 Oh we've got five minutes.
 Yeah.
 And I guess (inaudible) points back to your dad?
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Oh. (PAUSE) [00:39:59]
We're going to stop and...
 Sure.
 But you felt angry with her.
 Yeah, I won—, find myself wondering if, uhm, the way you're feeling the way you describe your feeling today, sort of not interested in going to school and feeling bogged down, it, it occurs to me that, eh, this was my impression of the way you were describing the way you feel if you're constipated.  That, you said it colors your whole feeling and your whole day when you don't have a bowel movement.  You feel sort of low-key, I gather.  And that's what you seem to be describing.
 Is this, ah, feeling typical at all of, eh, your periods or is that, is this —?
 Ah.
 Umhmm.
 Almost as though it were some sort of waste material or waste matter, huh?
 Ah, I did say last week, I would let you know about Tuesday.  I won't be able to change the time, eh, I'm afraid.  I'm sorry.  Our time's up.
 Okay. How are you?
 Yeah?
 Yeah, that’s all right now it’s getting [INAUDIBLE].  Hold on, let me get us on track.
 I saw you [DATE] so 3 months ago. At that point you had been in a reckless state. You couldn’t listen to a negative, you stopped the Wellbutrin, you calmed down some, still with [NAME OTHER] for 7 months, mood was lower, your appetite was good, sleep was okay, self esteem was good, no suicidal thinking, you were getting pleasure, your concentration was fine, your memory was better, getting rare sweats. You had been on the INH for a year, we were wondering whether there was interaction. So my sense was that in the setting of this cycling mood problem you have, you were in an unstable state back in [DATE] and even somewhat depressed and we found, in the past, that the Wellbutrin not only lessened your mood but probably made you more even and stable and so we agreed let’s go back to Wellbutrin see if we can get that back.
 We went to 75, I have here between 75 and 100. You want to just…
 75, now the 75 you take is the immediate relief.
 So it may peter out later.
 Do you find that it does?
 Before I ask you my question tell me what has happened?
 Well, [NAME OTHER] give me the story of your life.
 Right.
 Not too much means how frequently do you see…?
 So it’s weekly and you sleep over her place or?
 And how’s your wife handling this?
 Wow.
 Oh my God.
 And you know but there are, there is other…So you’ve got more negotiating leverage now?
 So they, well, now, it’s almost your payoff.
 I mean you knew the money was there.
 You knew she had access to it, you assumed she would go get it.
 And she has.
 It’s as if you handed it to her.
 Of course.
 They’re aware that she’s done these things?
 Right.
 How did she to the safe?
 Then she’d have to come into the city.
 And so she came in, don’t you guys have a gate or stuff on the shop…?
 So that’s where it is so she can get into that when she knows you’re home.
 Well, you can file a police report.
 Are you sure it’s she who has it?
 What was there?
 So that and the bank account?
 So nothing that’s not replaceable?
 You could make it up in the money you give her for household expenses.
 It seems legitimate that you bring it down to zero now and tell her to use she stole from you…
 Without any guilt…
 Well, it’s distasteful for you but the battle has begun. I think the divorce battle has already begun whether you want to be in it or not.
 What do you lose in life you know, you lose, you can lose cash which is one thing, you know which...
 Right.
 Absolutely.
 Absolutely, but I think your kids are, are, are, I met your kids, they’re sharp.
 I just don’t think you’ll lose the good will of your children.
 All right, let’s talk about your moods.
 Your mood is stable.
 A bit low.
 How’s your appetite?
 Gaining or losing weight?
 Why aren’t you exercising?
 Are you taking care of things better at the shop?
 The fogginess.
 Well, that’s your depression equivalent.
 That’s some of your depression. Do you find that you’re flat that you don’t enjoy things the way you use to?
 You’re not sad.
 But you know the term anhedonic? 
 It’s from the root hedonism, pleasure…
 Right, anhedonic is without pleasure and people, a depressive symptom that some people get they just can’t get the juice they can’t get enough pleasure.
 But not as bad as it was before?
 Do you spin your wheels?
 What’s giving you anxiety?
 You’re easily distracted.
 What are you distracted by?
 Like a siren or…?
 Not by personal things? Not by thinking about [NAME OTHER]…?
 Right.
 Like back in [DATE].
 You mean like years ago?
 How’s your self esteem?
 Do you feel hopeless or helpless?
 Do you ever feel that life’s not worth living?
 And the energy level. Are you dragging some?
 The INH treatment is that finished? 
 The TB. Did that change when you went off that?
 And that had gotten all better off of the Wellbutrin?
 Is that especially bad in the morning of is it bad all day long?
 Well, so…
 So it’s not necessarily a side affect of the medicine, it’s a, it’s an effect of the depression, right.
 Most people with, depression is a very cognitive experience, you know people don’t think clearly.
 But you were having some memory problems when you weren’t depressed.
 From the Wellbutrin.
 Well because, we got two sides of this. Either the Wellbutrin gives you memory problems or the depression gives you memory problems.
 It sounds like now, if you are on the Wellbutrin I would think especially since you’re on the immediate release, you get worse in the morning and then it would get a little better. If it’s depression, it’s just part of the fogginess.
 So, and, and, there’s not this instability. I think we’ve been overplaying your instability. I think you’re mostly depressed.
 I don’t think you’re especially unstable.
 Revving into high states, talking too much, racing thoughts...
 Right, you’re overloaded.
 That’s depression.
 That’s depression. The manic state is high energy, racing thoughts, talking too much and too fast, not needing sleep and a mood that’s either euphoric or very irritable.
 You’ve not had that for a long, long time.
 But you’ve had pieces of that.
 Well, but you also fell in love.
 Well you got into a highly lustful, amorous state.
 Right, but, it’s very you know, it’s hard for me to pathologize that.
 You know that’s what has happened to people throughout their lives when they get into those things. Some people it happens when a business deal is very you know charged up. Other people when they’re in their new love affair or whatever, I don’t know that we should call that part of your, a dysregulated mood and just say you were in a state.
 Right…
 The reckless state, how long did it last? 3 months?
 And you were on Wellbutrin the whole time.
 But you’ve been on Wellbutrin for 2-3 years.
 Without anything like that happening.
 You were.
 Yeah. The happy mood you were in, I suspect that’s your temperament. You’re beneath all of it, kind of a happy guy, you have a good temperament, engaging, pleasant, happy and the fog of depressive illness took that away from you…
 For a number of years and the marital stress. But when we lifted that your moods were not unstably happy, you were just happy the way you should be. It’s like taking the handcuffs off.
 But that was in your manic life. 
 But not in your stable remission.
 You were in stable remission for years. 
 You were doing fine and then something flipped and…
 It was women, it unraveled you. It put you into a state, but if you were really bipolar or much of a cycler, we would have seen that during the two or three years before when you were doing so well. We just would have seen it and it wasn’t there. I’m voting that we don’t have to worry much about cycling.
 Let’s get you back to where you were for those few years when you were stable and good.
 I think you need a sustained release version of it.
 Do you agree? I mean do you find that something dissipates in the early…
 Well and because you’re on the immediate release, it means it is totally gone by the morning, even the sustained release isn’t much there by the morning but that’s there somewhat. The immediate release is totally gone. I mean that’s pretty much out of your system within 8 hours or so. So, bumping you to the sustained release will improve.
 But I think also we got to raise the dose. I think, now did we ever try above 150?
 Why don’t we use the 100, did I prescribe the 100 last time?
 Let me give you the 100s and we’ll do 100 for a week or two. You know, let’s say one week. Things go well on the 100 then we’ll go to 200.
 And 200 is the, the usual dose is 300.
 I mean you’ve always responded at 150 but I think at this point we could use a little extra juice. 
 Get you exercising, energized, less anhedonic and get you moving forward.
 All right, so we’re going to increase of Wellbutrin. You don’t have any at home?
 You have 150s of the SR?
 Oh good, so then we can do it in three steps.
 We’ll do the 100 for a week, the 150 for a week, then the 200 for a week.
 And then at that point you’ll decide whether 150 or 200 is the right dose.
 Too much juice.
 Agitated. Let me see if I have any, I’m going to make it even more complicated. 
 I’m going give you some of the 150 XL. 
 Have you ever been on XL?
 There are two types of sustained release. One is SR and one is XL. 
 They differ in a very small way on the level you get through the day, but I think for most people it’s worth trying both to see which one seems to work better.
 If you can’t tell any difference then just use the one that comes in generic SR.
 It is sustained. But this is like super sustained. If you look at the blood levels it immediately releases up and down sustained is like this and XL sustains it even more.
 For many people it matters. For most people it doesn’t matter. Now the nice thing about the XL, is it comes in 300s. If you need 300 you can take just one pill but it also comes in 150s. So, I’m going change what I just said.
 Now you have some of the SRs right?
 Yeah you have 150 SR.
 So what we’ll do it and I’ll write this out. And the SRs come in 100s and 200s.
 Okay. Take some of these XLs.
 Yeah, and week one, so it will be all Wellbutrin. And let’s say week one you’ll do 100 SR…
 Week two you’ll do 150 SR and week three you’ll do 150 XL…
 And then try to decide which one just get a small taste of what you like better. We have not figured out which dose we want yet anyway. On week four and after you’ll be on 200 SR. 
 Okay?
 And then and you can call me and say you know I like the XL at 150 you know you’ll have all these options to say which feels best. You’ll probably wind up just on the 200 SR.
 But you may say you know 150 XL was the winner or this the winner or let’s go for the 300 XL or SR you know those are also options. Okay, so the prescription I’ll write for you is the 100 SR.
 Well no, you just take two of them.
 Yeah just take two and they come in 200s, but you know...
 That should be, okay. So, Wellbutrin SR 100. I’ll write that you take three a day so you’ll get ninety of them.
 But you take you know as…
 How’s your son?
 Did he make it to a chair yet?
 He’s out of the door, huh?
 But he’s behaving well?
 You said that to him?
 I saw you [DATE], I remember that session.
 The heartbreak or the drama over the heartbreak.
 But then you left me the message after letting me know the resolution.  Anyway, at that point, your mood was stable, you weren't sad or anxious or irritable, your appetite and sleep were good, your energy was good, you were exercising, you were getting pleasure normally, work was going well, you were dating, your self esteem was good, you were not suicidal, you were not helpless or hopeless, you were forward looking, concentration was fine, socially things were fine and so all of the mood disorder stuff was in pretty good shape and then there was this drama over the breakup that really had you in a bit of a state.
 Okay, at that point, since your mood disorder was actually doing pretty well - 
 We maintained your regimen of Depakote, Lithium, Wellbutrin, Lamictal, correct?
 Oh, Lamictal is just as needed?
 Okay, so we don't use Lamictal but you use Wellbutrin at 450, right?
 And you use 750 of Depakote?
 And 300 of Lithium?
 And nothing, as needed Klonopin?
 But you don't need it that frequently?
 Oh good, all right.
 Well since August, that's pretty - 
 I know some people who just take a crumb every day just to - 
 Smooth the rough edges.
 It's not so bad, you know.
 It's very smooth.
 All right, how have you been in these five months?
 Mostly okay.
 Wow.
 That's impressive.
 We've tightened the bolts.
 On the system.
 It doesn't mean you don't cycle a little bit, you do cycle.
 But uh, all right, so your mood's okay and reasonably stable.
 Right and most of the time you're not sad?
 Most of the time you're not anxious?
 Most of the time you're not irritable?
 You're allowed to be those things sometimes, right?
 But you're not allowed for the switch to be stuck in those states.
 Your appetite is okay?
 You're sleeping well?
 Most nights you get to sleep, you stay asleep through the night, you wake up when you want to and you feel rested in the morning?
 Do you get right back to sleep?
 Your energy is decent during the day?
 Are you exercising?
 They did an MRI and they saw bones?
 Are you still using the AndroGel?
 Yeah right, I think you called me once when you were trying to reach him, right?
 Well, I think you called me on the emergency line, was it the emergency line?
 Just the regular line.
 That's all right.
 You're not allowed to run out of Wellbutrin because we can all that in.
 The stuff we can't call in easily is the Klonopin.
 The Wellbutrin, that's a no brainer, just call us.
 Don't call me, call them.
 They'll pick your chart up, they'll call them in.
 You can even, even easier, have your pharmacy call them.
 Yeah, just call and I'll approve it.
 I mean if you haven't been here in many many months, they'll say hold on - 
 And how long had you been off Wellbutrin before that happened?
 What we're seeing now is the short days, you know -
 The sunlight issue knocks the hell out of a lot of people.
 So Christmas time and it wasn't family, it was sunlight, it was, the days were just so short.
 People were getting very depressed so that could be it too.
 Are you seasonal, do you have bad winters?
 An anniversary reactions.
 How did Christmastime go for you, what did you do?
 Now when did you get involved with the new boyfriend?
 Nice bounceback.
 How old is he?
 And it's a good relationship?
 Oh very nice.
 So how have things progressed?  You brought him to your family - 
 That's a big -
 Right and I think you're more looking for a relationship than for playing the field at the same time.
 So have you guys settled in together?
 Oh yeah.
 And he has his own place still though?
 You're on the [DEIDENTIFIED] here?
 A little bit.
 What's your new address?
 Close to your old one, right.
 Good.
 Uh yes.
 [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Okay, so it's very nice and where does he live?
 Does he leave most of his stuff at your place?
 I mean he gets dressed in the morning from your -
 And have you, I mean apparently things are going well, so have you talked about moving it even further?
 Which would involve him moving into your place?
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Does he own his place or does he -
 Good.
 It takes that out of the dynamic.
 It's not just the pressure, there's an emotional part of it too.
 That you don't want.
 You don't want there to be an ulterior aspect to the relationship.
 Right.
 How long was he with that ex?
 Oh wow.
 Well that's what happens.
 You take too much opiates, you just stop breathing. 
 Right.
 Well, no but it's happened to him.  Whenever it happens to you it's worse.  [INAUDIBLE] selfish about it.
  Yeah but yours was painful.
 Yours tore your heart out, you know.
 But what was the outcome, with the police and with the - 
 Right.
 Well, she can't say too much because you could sue, I mean you have a case against everyone.
 Right.
 Right.
 You have a case there.
 You're not going to pursue it?
 Not worth it.
 No but if she would have said something incriminating  - 
 Good, perfect.
 It's enforced separation.
 Right.
 It's a horrible way to end a relationship.
 It's horrible.
 You mean before you?
 [INAUDIBLE] 
 Your psychoanalyst probably has good insight into this stuff, they love this stuff.
 Narcissist.
 Yeah.
 The way he did it.
 I told you though, it happened, one of the stimulus to this happening was you getting well.  I remember - 
 When you were unwell, you were sucking all the oxygen and there was no need for that.
 But when you got well, it was a real relationship and it was a relationship that was getting more intimate and evolving and I think that's what scared him off.
 He started getting his - 
 Life together, yeah.
 And needier.
 Emotionally needier.
 Yes.
 Right.
 You know, I mean as you get more well, you'll have compassion for him.
 Because you're moving forward, he's, he won't move forward.
 Yeah.
 Let's go through your cycles since it's been five months.
 So in these five months, where have, have you had mild cycles or I mean where have you been?
 Right.
 Oh good.
 On the Lithium, we usually don't use Lithium that way but you can, just be careful because - 
 It's not a pretty, no.
 It's really ugly and I mean you can get permanent brain damage, it's horrible.
 If Lithium works for you -
 Do it but make sure you don't get nauseous.
 Nausea and tremor would be the first signs of being Lithium toxic.  You're on a low enough dose, it doesn't matter.
 I usually have people do it with Depakote or Zyprexa.
 Other meds, like kind of their as needed most stabilizers.
 But if Lithium works for you, you can use it.
 Yeah.
 Well, you know -
 Racing thoughts, talking too much?
 Fair judgement, grandiose?
 So our meds had you somewhat contained?
 Right, you really -
 Does he know bipolar?
 He's a psychoanalyst, what's his training?
 Oh, he's [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 [INAUDIBLE] all of us here.
 [DEIDENTIFIED] medical?
 Right, but psychologists train also up at, [DEIDENTIFIED] psychoanalytic they have.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, that's our people.
 Does he have a private practice?
 So he puts them on the couch four times a week.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 It's very hard to get psychoanalytic patients.
 And money, it's very expensive.
 Well - 
 It gets very intense on the stress side too.
 Well his feelings towards her is called a counter transference.
 Transference is her feelings towards him.
 But it's the counter transference that gets him in trouble.
 All the things he's, you know -
 Yeah.
 You know, you can do Lithium and Depakote.
 Both if it's only going to be one or two days.
 And put yourself to sleep.
 Four Klonopin - 
 Just to knock it down, just go to sleep.  If you can see it happening, knock it down and you're a mild enough bipolar now, since you're pretty well treated - 
 That that'll do it.
 You know, in the old days -
 In, you know, a real bipolar, it's too late, once you're revved, you're taking off but you're a soft bipolar now so we can rope that in.
 Do you go the other way, do you crash at all?
 So this happened two times?
 The juice.
 The Lithium, a little extra?
 Okay.
 I love it, I love those stories, that's great.
 You can call me when that happens.
 Yeah but you did exactly the right thing.
 You know my, what do they say, don't give someone food, teach them to farm, right?
 My goal here is to teach you to know how to manage it mostly.
 It's your illness.
 We'll learn about the drugs together -
 You've got to learn which ones, when you're getting ill - 
 Which ones to take, that's the key.
 You know - 
 Well, exactly and I say that to people.  You know, people get all depressed that they're bipolar, I say, you know, it's better than diabetes, you know.
 Right, it's better than cancer.  In today's day and age, it's the most treatable condition, it' fine.  You can live a totally normal life.
 And treat it.
 Is he a big bipolar?
 He hasn't had big episodes?
 Wow.
 What's his dose, what's his Lithium dose?
 You're on 300.
 Even at 600, it's not - 
 But I kind of like having two low doses.
 Rather than one big one.
 Yeah, more to play with and also by staying under the threshold for side effects, you minimize - 
 Negative consequences. 
 Lithium toxicity is terrible.
 It's awful.
 Yeah.
 It's amazing, it's changed the world though, I mean Lithium is great.
 Well, aspirin is different.  Aspirin comes from the bark of a tree.
 Although things have changed since the world of the anticonvulsants, you know, anticonvulsant treatment like Depakote, Tegretol, Trileptal and now there's a new world of treatments with bipolar.
 Abilify or Zyprexa?
 Yeah.
 Your antipsychotic medicines that have been shown to work really well for bipolar, the problem is we don't like to go to antipsychotic medicines unless we have to.
 There's a potentially long term terrible side effect.
 Where you get a movement disorder.  Did you ever see any old schizophrenics, they move their mouth.
 Yeah, it's called tardive dyskinesia.  It's a long term, it takes twenty years to get it but once you get it, it doesn't go away, then you're stuck for life, you know, tongue darting and lip moving.
 Right, so we really don't want to go to those types of medicines unless we have to.
 But that hasn't stopped the drug reps from trying to push us to use them for regular bipolars.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 We're always trying to get money from them to do studies.
 Yeah, I see them.
 Yeah, it's an interesting aspect of modern medicine.
 You know, with us, I mean we've got nice patients and all but it's kind of nice, beautiful women coming in, you know - 
 Yeah.
 Attractive and charming and they're chatting and, you know, so - 
 Right, of seeing -
 Sick patients, one after another, in the middle of your day you have kind of a breath of fresh air.
 Good food, right.
 We got [DEIDENTIFIED], they brought all this nice [DEIDENTIFIED]'s stuff, they come in chatting, you know, and even if they're not chatting about their drug -
 You know what their agenda is, you know who's paying for the food, you know, so it's great marketing.
 You know, it's really great marketing.  It's cheap, right, I mean what does lunch cost them and, you know, so -
 The personal touch and they know that, that's who they hire, I mean look who they hire, it's charm.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Now we do talk about the meds a little bit but as a researcher, I mean, you know, there's nothing they're going to -
 Tell me -
 Well, I'm not that on top of it but I'm pretty on top of it -
 Because this is what I do.
 You know, I better and we're always looking for, all we are is our bag of tricks.
 [INAUDIBLE] that we need, more drugs, more different ways to use them so we like drugs, you know, we like new drugs we learn about so there's not that much they're going to, you know, tell us.
 And everything they tell us you have to take with a grain of salt anyway because it's, but it's a very interesting, you know, interaction.
 Yeah.
 So you deal with [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 [DEIDENTIFIED] doesn't have much of a presence in the psychiatrist's office.
 They're not that big in general these days, they -
 And you go in and do a dog and pony show?
 Yeah.
 Right and it's around marketing?
 It's around how to present yourself?
 So you give in kind of tough situations, here's how you might manage it professionally.
 Right.
 That's pretty cool and it uses your talent at being an actor.
 At being up there, being, you know -
 And listening and getting people talking.
 Do you?
 What prescriptions do you need?
 Okay.
 Wellbutrin, remind me the dose.
 Wellbutrin, you're on 450, three pills every morning?
 You don't show up much, I'll give you four refills.
 Right, do not run out of medicine.
 You know  [INAUDIBLE].
 Lithium?
 The Lithium 300 mg, I'd rather you just take four a day.
 Just so you get a lot of them, you know, you take one and that'll last you four months.
 Depakote, you take three of the 250's?
 I'll write that you take three twice a day.
 Thank you.  
 [INAUDIBLE] drugstore with all those [INAUDIBLE].
 Klonopin, do you get the 25's?
 25 mg, I'll write that you take five a day.
 Do you take the 5?
 Oh yeah, do you get something from them?
 Yeah.
 What's your age again?
 What kind of event?
 Oh yeah.
 That might be, I might be able to break a boundary for that.
 It would be a boundary violation but you're actually allowed to break them if you recognize it and you kind of acknowledge it.
 You can talk to your psychoanalyst friend about it, you know, they're not as rigid as they used to be.
 About breaking boundaries, as long as you're kind of aware that you're breaking it and do within a [INAUDIBLE]
 Well, it's a very, transference is a very complicated thing.
 That's the whole treatment is the transference.
 Yeah.
 Here you go.
 See you in three months.
 Bye bye.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 And that makes you know perfect sense Ted. A lot of people you know when they have their first you know therapy experiences, that feeling of - those feelings of awkwardness. And then sometimes they fear the unknown, what is this going to look like? And what am I supposed to do if there is something to do? And you have a certain image of what treatment is or you have a certain image of what your therapist should be like and sorts of things. So that you know those little - those feelings are you know pretty natural.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 About you?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm. Who are the people that you're concerned about worrying?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay. Do any of them know that you're seeking treatment at this time?
 And do you parents know?
 Oh, okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay. You're here on campus.
 Where's your family?
 In Big Rapids. Okay. Do you get a chance  - 
 Do you go home often or...?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay. Okay. So let me ask you this, when you say that your parents are the ones who encouraged you to come, can you tell me how that started or what they were, you know...?
 Okay.
 What's your major?
 Okay.
 Okay. Is this your first year?
 First year? Okay. I'm going to take notes if you don't mind.
 There's a lot of information I want to hold on to.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay. And so how did they approach you with this idea of coming here?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. What was causing you to be unhappy at that point?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Cliques.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay. Down on yourself in what way?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Now can you describe for me Ted what that looks like when you're miserable? Like how can you tell?
 Mmm hmm.
 You tell yourself these thoughts?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 It's good enough.
 Okay.
 Does it affect your sleeping?
 Your eating, your...?
 How so?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 It's a lot of exercise.
 Okay.
 Healthiness.
 Right.
 Right, trans fat.
 Mmm hmm.
 Is that because you are....?
 Right.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Does it affect your relationships? I hear the sleeping, I hear the eating issues around that. Does it affect your relationships?
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Mmm hmm.
 This is before EMU?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Really pushed in respect to what?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Actually was. Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay. Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. Where did you apply?
 Okay.
 Right.
 Whose idea was it for you to come to EMU?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay. So was that your parents um,  - 
 - or your assumption or...?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. And was that important to you?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Is this your older brother  - 
 - or younger brother?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Who sets the standards?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay. What is it that ...?
 Because your brother went to the Loyola University.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 You're kind of in his shadow.
 In a sense. Okay.
 Okay. Why not? What makes you different?
 Okay.
 Okay. Was he driven?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm. So it seems like your values are somewhat different.
 I was just about to ask you could happiness be successful? I mean having, reaching happiness.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Sure.
 Have you thought about what about that you hate or...?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 So let me make sure that I'm understanding you right. You're afraid to set goals because you may have to stick with it and then turn out that the path that you have chosen is one that really doesn't bring that happiness and that fulfillment [indiscernible] and you're stuck.
 Okay.
 Who would be the determining person or determining force to say that this is the wrong goal?
 So if you'd don't do anything you're not going to regret or...
 Okay.
 Okay. So there's some ambivalence, it sounds like.
 Sure.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Go somewhere. But where is that somewhere?
 Sure.
 So let me ask you this Ted, why social work? Why writing or philosophy?
 Okay.
 The whole week. Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 What are some of your favorites?
 Mmm hmm. Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 How was that?
 And why social work? Or what is it about social work?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 What [indiscernible]?
 I was asking what did it actually stir up for you? [indiscernible].
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 If you could do something what would you do? [indiscernible]?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. So again it's that whole thing about, you know there's a different value of success.
 It's not about material things.
 Can I ask you something Ted? What is your family's world to you for success? I mean to look at your parents, like what do they do?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Sure. Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Mmm hmm.
 Sure.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. What is it that your father does?
 Really.
 Okay.
 Oh, wow, okay.
 Mmm hmm. What is it that you learned from that, from your dad?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay. So it sounds like you've gone through a process like a weeding out  - 
 Of certain...
 Sure.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 So when you came here Ted and you, you know your parents encouraged you to come. You said earlier how this is something that you thought about and would be a good idea to get some professional help. What were you envisioning this process to be like? Or what would you want to get out of this? Given your current situation, your current state, um....
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay. Have you ever considered at any point harming yourself or taking your life? Have you ever gotten to the point where you're so miserable that  - 
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm (30:00).
 Hurting yourself how?
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 How did your parents respond to that?
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And it sounds like you would want them to think more along those lines.
 But what about your happiness now?
 Okay. When - so outside of the cutting on the forearms, had you ever tried to kill yourself or  - 
 Did you have plans to?
 When was the last time you had those types of thoughts?
 High school? So nothing here since college?
 Why not do you think?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay (33:00).
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Okay. We have to wrap it up now.
 But I appreciate your sharing as much as you have. And I would like to you know invite you to schedule another appointment [indiscernible]. Um, I would definitely like to invite you to come back again next week if that's okay with you? Okay you shared a lot of information with me to help me understand your world view and just, you know what brings you here. And I want to be able to help you as best as I can. Um, you've given me a detailed picture of how, you know you see your parent and where you fit into that mold. And some of the conflict that you may be experiencing. Okay? Um, so we can schedule another appointment for the same time next week if that will work out for your schedule.
 Okay. And do you have anyone that you talk to, um that you feel close enough to talk to outside of you know...
 Yeah.
 Okay. Because one thing Ted, just to let you know since this is your first you know time in therapy, um, sometimes when you come in here and you talk and some things that you may not have thought about in the past or you thought that you, you know didn't think too much about as you're talking about sometimes feelings may come up for you. And so I would definitely encourage you between our sessions if things become uncomfortable, it may catch you off guard, whatever the case is, that you definitely consult or talk with someone that you know you trust or do something that helps you feel better or whatever the case is. Because sometimes if people haven't gone through the process they're caught off guard, like what is this about? And so I just want to kind of warn you up front that that can come up for you. Okay? Next week is the second.
 Uh - huh. Like if I knew for sure what I was feeling, and if I knew where I was at, I'd feel solid. But if you're so piece-
 Mm-hmm. [You know you hurt.] (ph) 
 And you know that this, isn't (inaudible at 0:00:51.6) livable, kind of situation. For you. 
 You feel [like bogged down.] (ph) Like this should be good. Being a (inaudible at 0:01:06.7) not going to be fun. It's going to be (inaudible) and maybe scary. And it could get really dragged in stuff because then (inaudible at 0:01:16.7 due to outside noise). 
 (inaudible at 0:01:27.6)
 Mm-hmm. (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
 And not have to live with panicky feelings and needing to reach out and touch. (long pause from 0:02:06.7 to 0:02:15.4) (inaudible)
 (inaudible at 0:02:17.5) feeling? 
 Mmm. Not get away from it and sleep? 
 I'm so tired too. (inaudible)
 Yeah but I just wanted to know what kind of feelings you were having. 
 Okay. Mm-hmm. 
 (inaudible at 0:03:06.8)
 Like I'll feel the same when I wake up. 
 So I'm not doing anything to stall. Maybe I'll feel (inaudible at 0:03:30.7).
 (inaudible at 0:03:44.0) 
 I've heard of a conversation (inaudible). That's what you try to do in general, but -  like a for instance conversation, like how you might tell your- [0:04:10.9]
 (inaudible)
 Sorry that you're hurting but I don't have to do this.
 A sorry that doesn't give you anything. 
 (inaudible) 
 (overlapping voices)
 How there's no bars on her? You don't understand that.
 Mmm. You come away with the feeling that you're (inaudible at 0:06:22.8). 
 Mmm-hmm. You don't want to do that. 
 What do you mean you said you don't feel cool about it?
 How does it feel? Okay. Because like I don't know exactly what you mean by cool. 
 How?
 She's off having good time and somehow she's off having a good time because she knows you're at home and it doesn't make a difference? 
 Like somehow I get the feeling you're feeling like you're somehow boosting her up or something? [0:08:05.1]
 Because she's not risking anything? 
 (inaudible at 0:08:30.7) I don't get what exactly - 
 You're being controlled by her?
 But you're forced to sit home? 
 She knows exactly what's happening inside you but - 
 You're just waiting for her.
 You come away feeling used. She's decided, "hey, I'd much rather go off with David." 
 Then going home and being with you. 
 And you're sitting there watching the time and waiting and waiting. 
 And wanting to come home (inaudible at 0:09:48.6). [That you're feeling it the same or - ] (ph)
 You might like feel like doing something with her. 
 What about your other son? Susan?
 I don't know. 
 (inaudible at 0:10:45.0]
 It feels crummy to do that?
 How do you know?
 Mmm. [I take it] (ph) this, is something you've talked about?
 You feel like you can't respect yourself?
 Like you must be creepy or something. 
 (overlapping voices)
 Could you read?
 What could you read tonight?
 Mmm-hmm.
 Do you enjoy it? 
 Yeah but it feels like that's what would happen till midnight. And then when she should be coming home. 
 You get thinking. 
 (inaudible at 0:13:27.6)
 Is part of it, her, the problem? Finding something you'd enjoy doing and that you could respect yourself for. (inaudible) 
 What won't you respect yourself for doing?
 (inaudible at 0:14:18.5)
 Do you do either one of them?
 Did you -  pick something out? (inaudible at 0:14:24.9 from overlapping voices)
 (inaudible)
 You could feel right about it. 
 How's your (inaudible at 0:15:06.8)?
 What are you feeling now?
 Mmm. 
 Without having to worry about whether she likes you. 
 Mm-hmm. (inaudible from 0:16:13.7 to 0:16:15.8) Is she going to want to be with me? 
 Is she going to prefer to be with somebody else?
 (inaudible at 0:16:31.9)
 Mm-hmm. What's wrong?
 Pretty crummy. 
 Mmm. But that isn't really what you mean to say? Is it?
 Is it that she wants you stay or that she feels a certain way about you?
 But you wanted, I thought you were showing that you wanted to believe. (overlapping voices)
 (inaudible at 0:17:59.6 - overlapping voices) That she was coming home because she really wanted to be with you. 
 Mmm. 
 Hello? Hello? Okay. Theodore Branch. We are going to have to stop. 
 Theodore Brance is coming to put a under rug under the rug. And how are you feeling there?
 The same as you were feeling when you came in here. 
 Does this feel like a good stopping place or you want to talk more? 
 Call if you do. 
 You're going stir crazy, I'm sorry. [0:19:46.2] [end of audio]
 Yeah.
 What's going on?
 I have not yet seen the DSM code for that.
 Um. Let's see. I - I mean DSM wise, I have you diagnosed as depressed.
 Sure. Sure. Yeah, I think that's true, but it's not very deep.
 I think ... sort of more descriptively ... I think of a few things. One is that ... it seems to me you are somewhere in the process of mourning some pretty major losses in your life to do with what you imagined for your career, to do with what you imagined for your family life, to do with things you imagined for your relationship, and I guess the other one would be just to do with like your health and mobility and wellbeing. That way I'm in - I think, you know, there is some good news in each of those categories it seems to me. [00:02:37] I mean there are things that you feel happy about with all of those things, but there's also a lot you've had to give up that you had no plans to give up. (Pause) So, I think you're really, really sort of sad and grieving in certain ways, and I haven't seen it yet, but it's generally true that people often get angry about losing things. So, I think that's part of it. [00:03:29] I think complicating your grieving those losses are things - I have in mind stuff - like things we've touched on about your personality that make that difficult, such as wanting to be positive even when you're really not feeling it, or wanting to focus on and take care of other people when you - you know, to the exclusion of sometimes paying attention to your own feelings or needs. Things like that. I guess also the other one I'd throw into that category would be, and you're clearly not the only one with this, but I think you have it, you know, particular discomfort with being helpless and not in control of a lot of this. [00:04:42]
 Sure.
 Okay. Right. So - does that - I guess the other thing I would throw in there not in terms of I guess I'd call those sort of personality factors or like parts of your personality.
 There's like big stuff to be grieved, just stuff in your personality that complicates that somewhat. I mean everybody's got things that complicate grieving, but these usually I think are some of things that do for you. And then there's also just like living with chronic pain, which obviously is pretty strongly associated with depression, and -
 Yeah.
 Yeah. And that one - that one in particular, the chronic pain, ... there's probably less I can do to help you with that. I mean I'm happy to talk about it, hear about it, do whatever I can that's helpful, but -
 - this kind of therapy ... it - yeah, there's - there's not a whole - I mean, you know, sometimes when they get - when you go to -
 - vander to get an adjust or whatever. [00:06:34]
 I see.
 Put your face on and stay positive and stay active.
 The cause. Yeah.
 I follow.
 Yeah. The other stuff I've heard about for that kind of thing is, you know, the relaxation and - [00:07:29]
 Yeah. Yeah, I think if I go out to clear all of the actions with the other stuff that the - loss and grief. Yeah. And I think it - it comes up no, we don't talk about it in those terms. I think kind of implicitly that's most or that's much of what we are talking about. Like, you know, on Tuesday, we were talking about your remembering what it was like when you were in college and how differently you felt about yourself, about your future. [00:09:04]
 Sure. Well, in - in -
 I mean I've - I've certainly heard a number of people who had gone to Havard, which I (crosstalk at 00:10:24) cause it's closer who say like, you know, socially - socially, things maybe were okay in high school or not so good, but then they went to a place where they were surrounded by other researchers or -
 - whatever -
 - people with all sorts of -
 Yeah. And it was this really wonderful.
 Yeah.
 Oh, no.
 Oh, and it didn't come across -
 It had to. Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Oh.
 I remember you taking computer science with -
 - (Crosstalk at 00:12:04). You and Double E. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I hear you.
 I see.
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 That's cute.
 Right.
 How were they able to do it? In other words, what weaknesses of yours were they preying on? I mean I - I have the impression that like while you were in college, you would've been a harder target.
 In what were you - in what ways were you doubting yourself?
 Was it like defense-type stuff?
 Were you in like defense at all?
 Oh, okay.
 Craziness. Yeah. That's craziness.
 (Crosstalk at 00:17:35). That's awful.
 Yeah.
 What happened? What else really happened?
 I follow.
 Are you going to get in trouble for pulling references or something?
 Are you going to get in trouble for pulling references or something?
 Right. Sounds like it was bullshit.
 What was the outcome ultimately like?
 Yeah.
 Did you feel like victorious or at least an image?
 Yeah. [00:19:30]
 Yeah, you were a total bad ass.
 It's like he actively undermined you (inaudible at 00:21:46).
 So when - when did you switch to Microsoft?
 And so that stuff was going on like 2000 - when did you get married?
 Right. And when did you have to stop working there, was that?
 Okay, so you were able to consult after that?
 And then why did you switch from doing consulting?
 Yeah.
 I see. So it was harder to keep up the pace you kept up -
 - partly because of the work and partly for your health or was it your health?
 Okay.
 I see.
 Had they had any - did they have retail stores at that point?
 Wow. [00:26:54]
 I see.
 Yeah.
 But (inaudible at 00:28:06) like at that time, even what you're doing now is emotionally draining, and you like some things about it but it sounds like you don't like other things about it. At that time, this felt like it was a good transition.
 Yeah.
 And you were getting out of something that had been stressful and quite variable.
 There was more depth that way.
 Where did you think it would go for you?
 And the drama at that time was mostly the stuff with Mike's family.
 I see. And your physical health?
 And this is - we're talking like 2001, 2002?
 Right. Right.
 Schooling and worked part of the time. Yeah.
 I see.
 Right.
 How did - what was the proof at that time? Like what - what were the events that made it clear what was really going on? [00:32:53]
 In 2001. In December of 2001.
 Yeah.
 But it was - it was through I guess his and his doctor's recognition and acknowledgement in like summer 2001ish that you became clear as opposed to by like knowing more about his behavior per se, like it was the -
 Right.
 Clearly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 I guess that's - that's part of what I'm wondering about is like there are a lot of people who sometimes surf Internet porn, -
 - but I guess at some point, it must've become clear that he was like -
 - I guess absorbed in a way that went well beyond casual use.
 Yeah.
 That doesn't sound like he was honest about, which is true for people with lots of sorts of addictions, like, you know, maybe somebody knows you drink too much, but they don't know that like you really have to be drinking a lot every day. Do you know what I mean? [00:36:03]
 It's something like that kind of thing where you knew that he was doing this and probably more than was good, but it wasn't - it still wasn't clear how much and -
 Sure.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 So there was this conflict of that, the stuff with his family, your health getting worse. And you were -
 Right. Right. Right.
 No. I knew that you lost your job and really couldn't work, I guess in part from being a contractor and the events after that.
 But he lost a job too?
 And I guess it's a lot of what you've been living with, the consequences of.
 Well, it sounds like it faded and it didn't in that the intensity of the sort of -
 Yeah. Yeah. But it sounds like its effect on your sense of yourself -
 - and your confidence -
 Unfortunately. Yeah. It hasn't faded. Yeah. [00:40:29]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 The one that you mentioned?
 Yeah.
 I see. Yeah. He can be out of the conservative (inaudible at 00:42:36) okay.
 I see.
 Right. Yeah, I - we can talk more about it, but I certainly don't see the -
 When this ends. We can stop for now. But we'll talk more on Tuesday. And I will keep my eyes open for something later in the day on Thursday.
 Yeah. [00:43:33]
 It's fine.
 Sure. No problem.
 I understand. Yeah.
 I'll see you. [00:44:14]
 And last time she was in was [DATE] but was complaining at that point in time she couldn't shut down.  We learned the last time that the daughter in law and son were separated.  Um, and I think we had some speculation that the daughter might have the same illness as [PATIENT NAME] has.
 Oh, your daughter, excuse me.  Okay.  The daughter has many [INAUDIBLE].
 Uh-huh.
 He lets his anger, he lets his guard down, yeah.
 Right.  You've got to remember something, that, um, you're dealing with, um, unstable, um, cellular energy, okay, or at least inflammation caused by various things.  And that in people either causes, um, over-stimulation or irritability or [INAUDIBLE] or poor concentration, all sorts of things like that, PMS, explosive problems, all kinds of stuff like that.  It's a syndrome very much like ADD, yknow, they get a whole bunch of stuff like that.  So you've got a daughter and you probably have a son who have the same gene.
 What's the different lifestyle than you'd like?
 She's gay?
 Yeah.
 All the stuff.
 Yeah.  It runs in families.  It does.  Creates all sorts of problems.  How are you doing?
 All right.
 What haven't you done?
 What can you do about it?
 How do you get it taken care of?
 So you do one thing at a time.
 Still on Lamictal 200, one half in the morning and one at bedtime, Celexa 40, and alprazolam one, one half twice daily and one at bedtime, plus if you need one for panic.  That working, not working?
 Not working.  What's wrong?
 Why?
 Suggest that when you take it don't take as much, take a half.
 Yeah.
 No, no.
 Is it helping you?
 It helps your memory but it gives you nightmares?
 Are you putting any of them to rest?
 Okay. 
 All right.  Is your mind staying quiet a lot?
 Okay.  Did the melatonin do anything?
 Okay.
 Where is your job that you're doing now?
 Disability?  Yeah.  [INAUDIBLE].  What was your job?
 What company was it?  [INAUDIBLE] yelled at all the time.
 Yeah.
 So basically you just need to stay the basic thing and let you play with the meds some.  Yknow, like you can take a third three times a day to make the 100, to make the amount.  And Celexa pretty much as is, and alprazolam you can vary that, make it work, and Aricept you vary that until a dose that you find tolerant.
 And melatonin just keep doing it.
 Okay?  You look well.  You look normal. 
 Oh, yeah.
 Uh, Northern Lights.
 Northern Lights.
 No, you go on the Web.
 I think you can get one from this, not [INAUDIBLE], Sharper Image.
 [INAUDIBLE].  Get somebody with [INAUDIBLE] you can probably get some, or one pretty, yknow, I think you can just get a grow light you can hook it into your lamp or whatever.
 You can sometimes get a, if you can get a grow lamp, grow light.
 But I don't know how many illuminance on it.  You have to find that out.  You might have to get two, two of them.  All right.  Come back in about two months.  Come back in about two months.
 Since nineteen eighty six, wow.  Yeah.  And we've gone through, um, basically all the, a lot of the new medicines and tried this and tried that, one childbirth.
 Yeah.  And, um, you were going to school, attending school, all those things.  Um, right now you're on Trileptal 600, three a day, 1,800, and Seroquel 200 mg one at bedtime.
 You stopped the Seroquel?
 Oh, three at night, 300?
 Three at bedtime, three tablets?
 [INAUDIBLE], okay.  And you've stopped taking the Seroquel?
 Okay, gotcha on that then.  All right, that's [INAUDIBLE] then.  All right.  And I last saw her on [DATE].
 Okay.  So how are we doing?
 What's she's doing?
 Uh-huh.
 Problems with her, good.
 Yeah.  Um, [NAME OTHER] has bipolar I and, um, of course that's a concern with the daughter, uh, who has mental cycles which tend to trigger this stuff off.  And she's in her last year in high school.
 One more year.  But no signs or symptoms of anything so far so she's good?
 Okay.  And you're sleeping okay and everything else?
 Did you ever hear anything?
 All right.  
 I did that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Mood swings?
 Like what kind of mood swings?  [INAUDIBLE].
 Are you having any [INAUDIBLE] cycles or it's unpredictable?
 Can you control it?
 All right.  Do you ever get any trouble with it when you were in [INAUDIBLE]?
 How long do the [INAUDIBLE] last you?
 How often do you have these?
 Have you?
 Um-hum.  Any side effects from the Trileptal?
 Okay.
 All right, the Seroquel.
 That you do what?
 Why?
 Uh, it's probably bipolar disorder.
 Is vasoconstriction.
 You get cold, you get, uh, hands and feet get cold, nose gets cold, ears get cold.
 Some people it'll get painful and some people have problems with, some women will have breast pain.
 You have migraines?
 That's probably the aura that you have if you were to have a migraine.
 Probably getting some vasoconstriction in there. Some part of your temporal lobe is irritated.
 I don't blame you.  Start having like weakness or swelling or anything like that?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yknow, and if they go off, oftentimes it'll make the illness a little bit worse when it comes back.
 Yeah.  It's like diabetes or hypertension.  What about, um, you don't have any problems with twitches or movements, or anything like that?
 All right, what about weight gain?
 No?
 Yeah, and you have Crohn's, that's right.  And we had troubles when you had to go on steroids.
 Right, yeah.  Good, that makes our life much better.
 Yeah, steroids seem to jack everything up.
 Yeah .  When's the last time you had an episode?
 Yeah.
 Good.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 [INAUDIBLE].  I tend to look at eyes.  You know somebody who's, uh, blank faced, fairly good sized eyes, and pupils are dilated, they'll flip the [INAUDIBLE] up and down, check their hands and they have cold hands, I figure that's where they are [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.
 What about, uh, are you still doing one month supply meds or you do three months?
 One month.
 They may have.  Let's see.  [INAUDIBLE].  Yeah, we did.
 Trileptal.
 And you had the other one filled just [INAUDIBLE] about eight months.
 Cool.  See you back in eight months.
 This is Client Grogan, interview 4. This is Client Grogan, interview 4. 
 Well, I mean there is no, I don't remember telling you to sit there but...
 Yeah. All right. 
 Would you prefer to sit over there, is that?
 Like maybe all the time you've been sitting in the wrong place? 
 I'd tell you.
 You trying to cut down?
 Feels like you don't really have anything to talk about?
 And right now you're feeling pretty good. 
 Medium but not, but certainly not in a place where you want to start dragging yourself down. 
 When talking about stuff that bothers you. Like you should be able to do that and not be pulled under. 
 Sort of, instead of getting depressed about the content of what you're talking about, you should sorta feel positively about the process which you're doing. 
 Are you saying something like, so far as you're going you're being honest. It isn't that you're lying. But it's like you're holding back parts of you..
 I would take that (inaudible at 0:04:54.0) you would want me to. That would have a bad impact on you. 0:04:57.7
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 It feels like you'd be better off if you could kinda come clean with what you're thinking when you're thinking it. But it sounds like that's sort of my, I don't know what exactly. 
 Yeah.
 Are the things you're ashamed of like, feel sacred to you. [Comfortable to keep to yourself.] (ph)
 Like right now. 
 It sounds like you're mind's a blank and it's important, will be important for me to know that it isn't that you're not trying it's just that nothing's coming?
 So it's like you're not being bad or something by association. 
 It sounds like I invited a case of stage fright.
 And not wanting to go out there. 
 God, I'm going sit there for how long with absolutely nothing to say. 
 Yeah, sorta pain, minute by minute or..0:09:01.5
 Hmm. Couldn't say it. 
 That as well as what was important to you. 
 I meant if that feeling was like uppermost for you..
 That doesn't help, for me anyway. Ok so nothing, no catastrophe has happened since Thursday, or Tuesday. 
 But why does that mean then you have to..
 Ok. I understand that. So you're going to sorta, I hear you say something like I'm going to have to back to something that isn't recent or fresh for you.
 But what doesn't follow for me is like how come that has to be something you don't want to talk about? 
 Oh. Oh. It must be because you can't think of it and that means you must be repressing it.0:11:01.6
 I have a sense that you're not tying yourself in knots, sort of thrashing or chasing your tail or ..
 Right now, yeah. You know like spinning your wheels or something like that. 
 It really is stage fright. 
 Um hmm. Do you think that feeling will go away?
 But here you are, like starting all over again.
 I can't hear what you're saying. 
 That's no good, that's no good. 
 Everything winds up on the cutting room floor. Still, right now?
 Without some sort of prior notion about which thoughts are worthwhile, it sorta seems like none of them seem particularly worthwhile.0:14:13.2
 Get that feeling if I said something like talk about your childhood, or talk about your feelings about sex, or talk about your feelings about power. I'm going through different kinds of personality theories. 
 Like then it would feel all right for you. But there's something about inside being a kinda uncharted area and all of the teams equally unimportant. 
 But it's like without that direction, it's just (inaudible at 0:15:01.2)
 Um hmm.
 Like even when you're alone and there's none watching you, there's someone watching you. 0:15:36.9
 Yeah, yeah. But it's like even when you're alone like not, like not being really you, even when you're alone. But like being, I don't know, a woman with no companion. 
 Yeah, it's not that you, usually it's not that you confuse what you should do with what you feel. 0:16:59.5
 But it sounds like, like you were saying something like, ok or that's right. But also like there are many times when you wound up doing, doing what you ought to do in somebody else's script. 
 The only thing that I was picking up on was you said, "Even when I'm alone."
 Or is that different?
 Um hmm.
 I'm having trouble following this. 
 Let me, let me, let me try, try this though and see. Is there something in there like feeling (inaudible at 0:18:47).1 people like?
 Ok.
 Yeah, I got what you mean. You mean like being chosen specially and not religious. Not like God necessarily but like fate or something another or whatever the mind is unclear but, specially picked out.
 But..
 Hmm. Sounds like being born five years ago or something.
 Yeah. And I want to finish that for you. The next part is that I keep on cooking. I curse. I burn the soup and then I burn the, and I'm still doing it. 
 How come you're burning everything?
 Like it may, it sounds like you're saying it may have more to do with me. 
 Disgusted with yourself?
 How does that make you feel?
 Um hmm. Like it was really hopeless?
 Hopeless so why try at all? 0:24:58.9
 How are you feeling?
 It's like listless, sounds like. I'm listless so what the hell? 0:26:10.2
 Um hmm. But whatever the reason for it, it sounds like worrying about it will make you sick. 
 Um hmm. Not very important.
 Yeah, like that's something that shouldn't be.
 So if it should be, there's no reason to talk about it. It's not justified to talk about. 
 You didn't want to seem stupid in here. 
 What's that mean?
 That sounds like not disintegrating so much. It's like embarrassed or..
 What are you embarrassed about? Or uncomfortable about..0:29:17.9
 You really experience yourself under some hell of a pressure to say something, sounds like. 
 Uh huh. The taxi meter is ticking away. 
 Yeah. 
 Yeah, you don't like yourself either way. 
 And that's like, that's like giving up?
 What do you do? I mean that's, do you mean something like that's like in here, like not being able to come up with something right away? 0:31:41.1
 Oh wow. I just had a feeling for you feeling like pins or something. Like here it is one minute after five and you don't have anything to say and just anticipating the other 45 or 50 minutes worth and you feel absolutely trapped. 
 How come? 
 I sit here and watch you and one thing that occurs to me is I'm wondering is it like nothing very important about you?
 Yeah?
 Are you feeling worthless now?
 Yeah. It sounds like this is really a negative, negative compulsory experience for you.
 Yeah.
 Like you're sorta getting, feeling more and more something, lousy.
 Um hmm. Sounds like sometimes what happens in here is mostly outside. 
 So in parallel, it sounds like, like you kinda take what goes on in here and then when you get outside, like plug it in or something.
 What's that? Concentration.
 I thought that struck something off in you. 
 But something, anyway, something about the humanist of the situation.
 Like the opposite of taking a test. 
 Um hmm.
 Like you're like having to get through the script.
 You don't know what you're supposed to do. 
 Something that you'd like from me? (inaudible at 0:36:14.3)
 Ok. But go with the other side for a minute.
 I mean I'm not clear. It's like, you'd like me to tell you what to talk about. You can't do that by yourself? 
 Um hmm. Is it when you say something that it seems like I don't treat what you say as important? 
 Well I mean like when you say something, does it seem to you that when I respond to you that I seem to like dismiss it as being..
 I just wanted to check out whether you..
 Or fall asleep.
 Hmm. Kinda like you're wasting my time.
 No one's said, "Oh, that was a dumb thing to say."
 But the way you're saying it makes it sound like you're the only one. 
 Um hmm. Maybe that, maybe they're thinking that underneath. 
 I don't know what you're saying. Like (overlapping)
 Like you're not a sparkling conversationalist. 
 I don't understand. 
 I see. Where you have, where you're proficient is stuff that isn't worth talking about. 
 What's the part that's true in it?
 Second rate or third rate?
 Um hmm.
 That really stands out as important to you.
 Like it was an accident that you were..
 Yeah, it sorta sounds like kinda just giving in and waiting to be flunked out or something. 
 Didn't flunk out.
 Sounds sorta like a barn horse that wakes up and winds up in the starting gate..
 For the Kentucky Derby and then decides well, what the hell? I might as well lie down on the track. 
 Walk around the track. Except unlike the barn horse, like you were stuck in there for how long?
 That's kinda a long time to feel over-matched. 
 You didn't.
 Um hmm. Sorta like this way you could say, "Well I never, I wasn't really tested."
 It sounds like you're saying something like, it's like, "I feel more comfortable talking about it. It must not be all that important or all that." Something like that. 
 I'm sorry, what's true? 0:45:04.5
 Oh, oh wait a minute. I'm sorry. Is it like, you said to me before you said, "The things that I talk about aren't worthwhile."
 And then you start talking about this and then you say, "Well, this isn't worthwhile."
 And like you sorta looked at yourself in the mirror and said, "Hey, I'm doing it right now, what I told you about." And you were laughing at yourself only it's not funny because you do it. I'm sorta slow, but I'm with you. 
 That really isn't funny.
 Because that's a kinda way, I guess you're feeling like you tripped yourself up.
 What do you mean? 0:46:35.8
 Yeah. 
 The truth of it is, sounds like you're pretty unknowledgeable and inane person. Like unknowledgeable where it counts and inane where you're knowledgeable. 
 Um hmm.
 So the one thing I see is it must have felt like being a child being spoken to as an adult. 
 You knew what you were, I mean..
 It sounds like it was almost comical. 
 Oh. That wasn't a very good thought. 
 Hmm.
 Um hmm. Like while you're talking you're into it and..
 Feeling like it's interesting but when you're finished, you get this creepy feeling like, I totally made a fool of myself.
 Um hmm. Um hmm.
 Sounds like if you're involved in something, if you have feeling about it, then afterwards you feel awful.
 Like the enthusiasm is, that's not being cool?
 (inaudible at 0:53:40.9) But I guess that I, I'm not sure of the substance but it sounds like you came away feeling that you'd pretty well fooled them. And you saying, that's right you really did. 
 Uh huh. 
 Uh huh.
 Oh wow. I would come out of that experience feeling like a damn fool. Like doing something, like I had done something that was gratifying to me but I had really messed myself up in the process. Like I had done something to get people's approval but it wasn't the thing to help me. 
 Um hmm. Um hmm. What is that? Is it like angry for acting somebody else's script? 0:55:04.1
 Ok. 
 They wouldn't find it interesting?
 (inaudible at 0:55:51.6)
 You got through another hour. 
 I get the feeling where you're like watching every second. Like a display board, and it's time and one more second past the light lights up. 
 I didn't hear you.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah. It's like what I was trying to get at before to understand is what, what the heck are the components of that pressure. Or what, what's that monkey on your back?
 It always smells different. That's animal in the basement and stuff. They're also building a building next door. 
 Different scents waft through the corridor. It sounds like you can't say anything that isn't irrelevant that you feel. 
 Who says? Why is it irrelevant?
 Well wait a minute then. Ok. So it sounds like that you have some sense of what you want to talk about or something and that's like a deviation from what you want to talk about. Is that what you?
 Um hmm. 
 But it's like a lot of things you were saying that were irrelevant you were talking about yourself, so I guess I'm confused. 
 I guess we'll stop. 
 I don't think I can say that with a straight face. 
 I expect you, I say that because I sorta expect you to heave a huge sigh of relief. 
 It's ok. 
 Bye. See you on Thursday.
 Why on earth? 
 To have a big box of Kleenex. What's that?
 Oh, I see. I see. 
 Be (inaudible at 1:00:37.9) to show feelings now.
 Yeah. See you Thursday. 1:00:57.1
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah
 So, sunlight sometimes means something.
 And just like [NAME OTHER] said, you [INAUDIBLE] in [DEIDENTIFIED] and there's more sunlight.
 More days of the year, unlike here.
 And then of course that's why it's called affective seasonal. 
 Affective disorder, it's a seasonal depression.
 And uh, did she say anything more as to, is it more common in men or women or anything like that?
 Yes, women, it is more common in women.
 And because sometimes you know, they, in women becomes more serious.
 During their menstrual cycle. 
 And because the sun's...
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 That, yeah, and not only, you know, having active periods you know the hormonal change.
 It's like a, you know, the periods, post menopausal you know, time and all that.
 Have something in common, is hormonal change. 
 Yeah, and so since you saw that and you know, looking at the life situations so far that what did you think or what did you learn from all that?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm. Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 The person that you refer to as mother, not your biological mother, 
 This is the mother that you.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm, yes.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, and of course, that's how life situations are.
 That you know-
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 And, yes, and you know, she fulfilled the role of the mother, she took good care of you.
 And now you know, you feel that uh obligation to return that favor.
 And you know.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, so.
 Yeah.
 What, yeah, because you know, she, she raised all three of you.
 And...
 Yeah mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm, yes.
 And you know, and the, the so called mother that you did not have, she was able to... 
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, and I'm sure that you know, if she was uh in uh, right frame of mind. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 And I think if she was not, did not have the Alzheimer's she would have been able to say thank you for the, what you are doing, you know. 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 [INAUDIBLE] 
 Yeah because you know the [INAUDIBLE], you know one of the few things about Alzheimer's is that they get very paranoid with it, delusional uh, you know, and... 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, 
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah it's you know...
 Mm-hmm.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 That's, yeah.
 Yeah
 Yeah, and you know, the cause the some people get you know, effect them physically some get effected you know, mentally and emotionally. 
 And... 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 That's true.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mmm.
 Mm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah that...
 Yeah
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah because you know the, when you know because the doctors have to declare her incompetent. 
 And... 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yes, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, well and I think you know, something that you know, there was still some purpose that you had to fulfill.
 Yeah and...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, and...
 Yeah, otherwise, how are things going?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, yeah and you know, the mere factor of winter, you know, when people are
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah there is a light actually it's a bright light.
 Yeah, which will be about fifty times brighter than all the light bulbs that you know combine in this room. 
 And what it does it basically it will simulate the amount of sunlight. 
 That you will be getting or something similar to that. Okay, and...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah
 Yeah, yeah and this is a lot brighter.
 Yeah and so that in some people that works very well.
 That's another device that you know also has been used it the uh two small magnets and...
 Yeah and you know, you, the, made to fit the temple.
 And you know, you can wear it, maybe a cap or something like that, that you know magnets on, some people uh respond to the magnetic field. 
 Some people respond to the light. And because you know the, some people need light or all the magnets and the medication. 
 And a few people you know do very well with the medication only. 
 So, 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, some of these things have a little stigma association.
 With that and you know, some people have a tendency to shrug their shoulder as soon as they hear that somebody complains of either physical pain. 
 Or emotional how difficult it is.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, okay and that's of course coming here actually mean. 
 Whenever we talk about treatment and there is medication as with... 
 Some therapy. And...
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, sometimes you know the what the pamphlets and you know some of those talk show things and other things too, it educated you a little bit. 
 And...
 Yeah.
 And uh, and you will be able to recognize, you know, I have I experience some of that, I you know feel some of that.
 And otherwise many times we as uh human beings have, an inhibitory either to minimize or exaggerate.
 And there's no you know neutral ground I'm feeling like this,
 Okay, and or I'm feeling like this, okay? So, you know, by having those types of information at your finger tips uh you're able to recognize that, oh I felt like that some time ago.
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, mm-hmm.
 All right, so let's see what we can do, anything else you want to tell me?
 Okay. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah?
 Yeah you can if you want the shot twice a month that is acceptable. 
 Okay, or you know if you want to take the pills every day is also acceptable. And it comes in...
 Probably the, you're not absorbing it that well. 
 Because you know whenever we take uh you know vitamins or certain you know uh nutritional supplements you know especially B12 you know.
 Regular vitamins only about ten or...
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I think you're not absorbing you know.
 And right amount of course what is injected in the muscles, okay?
 The ninety percent is absorbed in the muscle.
 Yeah, it's the same thing anywhere uh in the body.
 Okay, and you know ideally a good muscle is the best to for the B12. Okay?
 Even you know the uh the muscles like right here in the...
 And...
 Yeah and you can you know.
 Yeah, yeah, if you are giving it to yourself you know. 
 You have to remember that convenient place or you can also give it in the thigh...
 And such a tiny needle...
 You wont feel it and even the B12 basically is a vitamin based found in the muscles. 
 Or the liver. 
 So by giving it...
 Yeah
 Yeah right.
 A delaying tactic?
 But that was what you wanted?
 You feel like therapy is almost a female to talk to until you get a regular female to talk to?
 Maybe one of the jobs was fiction?
 So one of the things you mean by going back to your old habits is being more interested in other women and more interested in the past. (ph)[5:59]
 You're agreeing (ph) with your wife and you'd like it to be new and fresh and exciting.[Pause]
 Felt like she was playing some kind of game with you?
 It sounds like lately you've been getting indifferent and unpleasant things from her and not knowing really what's on her mind.
 Like the gist of the vibes you get aren't good? 
 Yeah you used your mind to know that her parents were ... would prevent her from going out and meeting a guy and
 Yeah. But you kind of felt one up on him?
 You weren't in the mood.
 Feel like you're inviting yourself again where you might not be welcome?
 You know the way you've been putting it like going back to your old habits. It sounds like it feels to you like you've been backsliding or slipping into something you don't want.
 Yeah. It's sort of like you want to have things with women but you don't want the effects that seem to come out of it. [Inaudible]
 Yeah. Can't just go away and trust her. 
 Oh you mean as vulnerable to men as you are to women? [19:58]
 You can't help thinking that your wife is the same way.
 And you don't want to be turned down? [22:02]
 Why is that?
 No surprises. 
 No wondering and intriguing. 
 So he's really appreciated in you and I know that makes you feel a whole lot better about the whole thing.
 It sounds like you changed in that a little. Like you won't have taken that position awhile ago but now you're pretty satisfied with it. 
 Yeah it's almost like now you can't be sure that any change will be a change for the better. 
 Yeah competing in that league. 
 So everything's pretty good in regard to your job. [28:10] 
 Home and your marriage and your wife.
 Looking for them or you feel in a way like you're making them up or something?
 Making problems in that sense like maybe it doesn't really necessarily have to be suspicious?
 Wish you could really know.
 She claims that doesn't have anything to do with you?
 Yeah feel like that there must be a little more to it then just that she's tired and works a lot.[Pause]
 Wondering if you're staying together just because it's safer.
 Yeah like she was downgrading you.
 Hurt you but she didn't think to have more faith in you than that.
 Yes.
 I'm going away. I'll be out of town for awhile. 
 Yeah.
 That would mean we'd either have to get in an extra session one time.
 Or yeah.
 That's right you are going out of town too.
 I don't see how we're going to get in four sessions if I'm going to be out of town and you're going to be out of town. 
 Does that sound ok by you?
 Well you know I don't listen by way of forming conclusions.
 Yeah kind of a warning of like a plan laid out for you or something.
 But if maybe like wanting it to be clearer like to be able to put your finger on just what is the problem and then something could be done about it. 
 Does that please you?
 About the [inaudible]
 All in all you been feeling in a way you [inaudible]
 Yeah it's not like getting anywhere.
 And you don't feel like you've come out ahead with her.
 I just had the feeling that you had some stuff that had been activating you or bothering you and yet not quite knowing how to talk about it or how to approach it or ...
 Yeah. Right now none of them seems all that pressing.
 Something you've learned [inaudible] in the way of coping with things. [44:03]
 Sorted out the important things and did them.
 So secure and like you'd done something that deserves his approval and you put in a full morning and you'd done enough.
 Yeah. You felt like you earned it.
 Too easy following him.
 You feel like you deserve some recognition and viewed more concrete.
 You wouldn't get any [inaudible] or anything.
 Not sure whether she got the message.
 And something you feel about that like and she should have heard it and why didn't she hear it.
 Yeah made you feel like what's the point.
 Maybe you don't all of the time feel that giving in some to her. 
 Feel like you are mistrustful and you're supposed to be angry. Not loving and things.
 You don't know if ...
 If you were all tender and loving to her and then she was making off on the phone. And you feel like well the hell with that.
 It didn't make any difference to her then. Why should it now? It's almost like she's lost her chance. [56:16]
 And you're like what she did made you feel this way and she brought it on herself. 
 Yeah it felt like a cut to you. I guess we should be quitting. So you're going to be out of town early next week?
 Right. 
 Should we make one for Wednesday or is that going to be hard to cancel if you can't make it?
 Sure, sure. Oh sort of late Wednesday like 3:30 unless ...
 That's a little too late for me because I'm going to have dinner here. [I can't manage that] (ph). [59:27]
 Sure.
 Why don't we make that 4:30 on Thursday?
 Yeah. 4:00 or 4:30 would be the best for me on Thursday.
 Okay.[Pause]
 Great. Have a good trip.
 [Inaudible]
 Okay, that is all we need to do with that.  So what did you tell [NAME OTHER]?  How, how did you, you tell her you were doing?
 Um-hum.  And what is, uh, the hold up here?  What is the problem?
 Yeah, those IRS forms or whatever.
 Because your income went up?
 Okay.  Was this section 8 or something?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 I see what you're saying.
 Wow.  Well, were you able to go back to them and tell them?
 All right.  So this is a pattern, though, that you've gone through before.
 Oh, good.
 Well, why are you having a hard time?
 But you don't have any new medicine for that?
 So they don't have you on steroids or anything of that nature, right?
 Okay.
 Well, we need to be careful if they do that because, um, we can sometimes see, um, mood changes with steroid medicines.
 Okay?  Um, and so sometimes people with steroids can, uh, can get depressed and sometimes they go the other way and they get anxious and restless and manicy.  Hopefully, you know, you won't need it.  But if you do need it, um, we also need to be careful, uh, the power cord isn't here.  We also need to be careful if you need it, but they don't put you on, you know, too much of it because it also seems to be a dose related phenomenon.  So as you go up in the dose, you sometimes find, you know, more side effects.
 Um, and, [PATIENT NAME], in the past, I've had you fill out a rating scale -
 For me, and so I think, if I can find one, uh, what I'd like to do is document at least where you're at today.  You've seen this before.  This is a, um, Beck, it's called a Beck Inventory.
 Okay?  And I'm going to get the power cord.  That, the reference range is over the last 2 weeks.  All right.  We're working on getting the cord.  I'll be right in [PATIENT NAME].  Does that form look familiar?
 I know.  I lot of people do, but it, it is actually useful.  They've got some sort of a metric on there that can measure how you're doing.
 Okay.  Let's see.  So the VNS, though, is not causing any problems, as far as you can tell?
 Yes?NR: She says that you say it's charged.
 Um, this type of, uh, headache that you've had, is it something you've experienced before?
 Um-hum.  Is it a migraine, migraine headache?
 Okay.  Have you taken any, uh, migraine medicine for that in the past?
 Yeah.
 It stopped -
 Because?
 Is that right?
 What are they worried about with that?
 Um-hum.  So the heart -
 Um-hum.
 Are you taking blood pressure medicine now?
 What about the cholesterol?  You still on that lovastatin?
 Any other medicines that are new since we last met?
 Okay, I'm going to do 1 more thing here and we'll be done with this.  All right, so the Maxzide, what, yeah, the Maxzide, so you've been on that for a while.
 Did, did, uh, [NAME OTHER] check your blood pressure today?
 Oh, good.  Yeah, okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, you're lucky.  One's, uh, that has been able to balance that.  Yeah, it looks good.  Okay.  How old are you, [PATIENT NAME]?
 [AGE].  All right.  How are things with your sister?
 Where is she living now?
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.  You're not going to go though?
 Okay.
 No?  Why not?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah.  Okay.
 Oh, so you can see them right, so you don't miss out on all of it, but.
 Um, well, with your medical stuff here, did they do, uh, pulmonary function test?
 Uh, I mean, sorry, did they do a chest x-ray?
 And, uh, did they give you the results of that?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Because obviously, I mean, breathing issues are closely related to anxiety problems, and they kind of drive each other.  So -
 If you're not breathing well, and then, you know, you start to have anxiety as you were earlier here, you know, it's, it's, it can make it more of a problem.  Are you seeing [NAME OTHER] at all for counseling?
 Uh, why?
 Um-hum.
 Well, maybe that is true at the time, but, um, certainly you can benefit from gain, gaining some, you know, skills and techniques to get your anxiety back under control.  And the medicine is 1 part of it, but having, you know, some, uh, confidence that you're not dying and that, you know, you're going to be okay and that you'll get through this is reassuring.
 And breathing techniques and these kinds of things, [NAME OTHER] can go over with you, right?
 You know, so, I, I think that these, uh, emesis are sneaky, and they fluctuate, and there are times when you feel more anxious than others.
 And, uh, times when your mood will be, you know, um, more, uh, tense or more depressed than others as well.
 Well, good for you.  Well, I'm sorry to hear that.
 But I, I do recall last time your dog had died.
 So, um, that is always a tough life experience to go through.
 And now.
 Yeah, well of course.
 Yeah.
 Well.
 She'll settle down I will hope.
 What, uh, what kind of dog?
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  That is fine.
 Uh-huh.
 Hello.  So, um, a smaller dog.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh, really?
 Um-hum.
 Wow.  But she lived for a while, right, 14 or 15 or something?
 See, I remember these things.
 Well, that is pretty good.  But it is tough.  It's hard to lose an animal.
 Real tough.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Unbelievable.
 Geeze.
 That is a little scary to think that they can live that long.
 To think about it, 19 years.
 Huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Is that right?  [LAUGHING].  It's easy to do, you know.
 They, they walk, walk around, they're cute and look at you like please take me in.
 Well, don't be doing that, you've got enough.
 Uh, going on.  Your -
 Puppy and everything else.
 But it does sound that things have started to settle down a bit other, I mean, in regards to, your finances are improved from the situation.
 So we've got to figure out why you're not breathing so well, and then, are you smoking?
 Good.
 Okay, good.
 Yeah.
 And that is pretty bizarre, isn't it, uh, that many years later?  You hear that stuff, people, you know, they finish a project and they look for their cigarettes and -
 Yeah.
 Geez.  That is impressive.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Well, yeah, you know, run out -
 And, uh, buy a pack.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Well, don't.
 Don't do it.
 Well, look, [PATIENT NAME], do you want to look into some changes with your medicine, or do you think, uh, maybe a visit first with [NAME OTHER], uh, would make, uh, more sense, uh, at this point before we start, uh, changing things around?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, you're right.  I'm looking at that.  There is certainly, uh, a few, uh, medications that you haven't been on.  And -
 Um-hum.  How is your, what insurance company are you using?
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Well, um, why don't we see what happens switching your Effexor over to a new, uh, a medicine called Pristiq.
 Pristiq has been around since like, I don't know, last May, I don't know, for about a year.  It's made by Wyeth, which is the same company that makes Effexor.
 It's a more potent in a sense, uh, version of, of Effexor, so it's somewhere between 50 and 100 mg should do what, what 375 of this Effexor's doing for you.  It's kind of a cleaned up version with a smoother delivery system, so fewer side effects, better tolerability, less blood pressure risks.  So those are some advantages.  But there, there is no given, you know, 1 simple formula to do this, everybody is a little bit different.  Um, generally, you're kind of a cross taper works the best.  So I would suggest we lower the, uh, Effexor to 150 mg for 7 days and then we take it down to 75 mg for 7 days and then we'll stop it.  At the same time, let's add 50 mg Pristiq for, uh, 7 days and then just take you up to the 100 mg dose and we'll see.  I'm going to give you samples.
 Okay?
 So we'll go talk to the nurse about this and see what happens with it.  But I've had some good, good results with it.  And we'll add Pristiq.  Okay?  We'll see what happens with it.  We'll leave the VNS where it is.
 [Laughs]
 [Laughs]
 Right...
[00:01:00]
 Was throwing it out the window so they would stop distracting people one of the...
 Mmm Hmm
 Yep
 Mmm Hmm
 Right.
 Uh huh.
 And that helped?
 Uh huh.
 Michael Humitt down at the business school?
 Uh huh
 What are these things supposed to do?
 I mean, I didn't realize how I had to hear it, I just...
[00:06:26]
 Like as opposed to something wireless?
 But nobody in a Mac [inaudible] setting a Mac though.
 Nobody's [inaudible]
 Yeah.
 Need to get another table and have the screens on that table.
 [Laughs]
 I'm sorry, I'm just indulging here. But there would be something fitting about it wouldn't there? It's like...
 Like.. the more ridiculous... it would be iconic of the whole... sorry
 Sorry, no. I mean... have the sign be overpriced, unnecessarily wizzy. And essentially pretty useless aside from just having some [inaudible] paper due.
 Which seems fitting for something like a media scape table which is sort of the same in being this overpriced thing that could be replaced by a few laptops.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Chet came across to me like he was saying that (pause) you were being (pause) kind of selfish, inflexible and unreasonable (pause) by insisting that if people aren't going to do things in all the ways you want them to be done, you want to take your toys (ph) to home. [00:22:22]
 And (pause) it sounds to me like you're (inaudible at 22:36) is that (pause)—a little unclear, but it sounds like you are wanting some, like, real responsiveness of some sort or communication, even if (pause) disagreement or (pause) most or all of your recommendations are not, like, acted on? That at the very least, somebody come on and say, "Well, we thought about this, but we decided on that."
 I'm not sure how much—I guess something (ph) I'm unclear about is how much you're saying you also would like to be to (inaudible at 23:27) to have some input. Like, if you write ten things, maybe they do two, you know, or whether you're saying you want them to (pause) communicate to you how they have taken seriously what you have recommended, whether they (inaudible at 23:49) or not.
 Right. Like, if somebody came along and said, "Look, Karen, we looked at your recommendations (inaudible at 24:28) and, you know, in fact, we feel like it's really important that we have some very new cutting edge technology in here and we understand that there are still, you know, bugs or limitations in the functionality of these things or reasons they won't work, but just as a kind of symbol of how we're so progressive with technology, we think it's important for these to be here." Like, that might seem ridiculous in a lot of ways, but at least it's a sort of considered response or something.
 Like a huge problem that couldn't be more evident to you, but that (pause) nobody will listen to you about at all?
 You know, there's such a two-sided thing where on the one hand, like, (pause) it's so (pause) clear, I guess, (pause) how incompetent these people are at—at least it sounds like at what they're doing and the others do. And at the same time, sort of on the side, you're so sort of powerless [and sort of cutely] (ph) on the sort of bottom part of the totem pole. It's just the contrast sort of strikes me (inaudible at 35:15) or the other. And (pause) I'm not quite sure what to say about it, it just struck me.
 Maybe, like—sorry I did have another half thought about it, but it only occurred to me after I stopped talking, which was, like, maybe it can be a bit of a salve (ph) for your helplessness and (pause)—or not being listened to at all. Or it can sort of substitute frustration for a sense of, like, helplessness and upset, which doesn't sound like much comfort particularly, but may feel a little better, I don't know.
 When I say that a kid is acting out to get attention, which sounds pejorative. (ph) [I meant to say] is a kid who's being totally ignored is acting out so somebody will pay attention (inaudible at 37:34)?
 Like, I think it's a terrible thing in itself, but also I think that in with your own feeling at times that (pause)—(inaudible at 40:29) you have to say or maybe there's you don't realize about it, how it (inaudible at 40:38) or something like that. I'm not saying you're projecting what's going on under (ph) him, I'm just saying.
 Incredibly frustrating.
 (inaudible at 46:26) dysfunctional feeling.
 (inaudible at 46:28) for now.
 Right.
(background noise, inaudible conversation)
 ah, session twelve
 But then are you saying it was depressing?
 That it was so easy. 0:01:59.6 (inaudible)
 What you did want.
 Felt bad that... 0:03:39.9
 Wait...that...what mattered a lot?
 With such short hair. 
 I thought you felt bad because... 0:05:04.6
 So you feel bad, yeah I see you feel bad about that. Then you feel bad that that should bother you. 
 So it sounds like now that you're really disgusted and it's even like now I've talked about all this, like you're much more conscious of how you're acting. And so it's very disgusting or discouraging to see yourself acting that way. 
 So one of the worst things about it is all this could slip out of your mind so easily. Just forget about it.
 Yeah I think so.
 I guess that makes you wonder about how serious you are or something.
 Like it's useless to try and change.
 Big deal.
 But if that's all you can get out of therapy, is just to see what you're doing wrong more clearly. 
 You can snow them so well?
 I'm not quite sure what that...to see that ability in you, what that does to you.
 So...
 Then how...it seemed helpful for a while to analysis it and figure it all out. But it doesn't seem to be any help if all you do is just repeat it over and over.
 oh...I don't remember exactly. I thought it was a couple of times.
 I don't remember either.
 You really totaled it (ph)
 But that's what's so disturbing about it is you can get so, so involved in it, that you forget the rest of yourself.
 You make a momentary impression, a little impression. Like all this seems very unimportant when you're out there. 
 Maybe it's useless to try to really change things. Maybe it's so ingrained in you I guess you'd say, so much (inaudible at 0:15:00.1)
 so you feel a lot of animosity?
 So that whole part of yourself really, really turns you off when you're in this part. 
 Now when you stated that you said...is that true or not?
 I guess what's happening right now, is that you feeling pretty discouraged because you're trying to think of other ways to look at what was so discouraging.
 Maybe, what is the choice?
 It's almost like there's kind of a struggle going on. Like the guy this weekend and is sort of having a struggle with me who's pulling for the other guy.
 It would give you a lot of freedom to go into a whole new situation.
 Just being...without all those outside pressures.
 Putting all those pressures on yourself.
 It's just a feeling (ph)...is it possible that in a way it sounds like this whole thing about these two people and all that is in a way summing up a lot of expectations too. And you must feel that as a kind of pressure on yourself to change into this other kind of person. 0:19:27.7
 Hu huh. 
 So what's really important to you is being recognized. And what really makes you feel bad is feeling like nobody's noticing what you're doing.
 I said what makes you feel bad.
 Isn't that what you said, is if nobodies noticing you?
 Oh, I see.
 Not too much?
 So can I reconcile and try to live with both of them?
 Well can you?
 And that would feel great? (inaudible at 0:22:45.3)
 Did I say that?
 No, it's what his feelings are, rather than why. 
 If I did, I meant what.
 No I don't think so. Are you saying you think so? 0:23:50.4
 Well I guess it's something like sometimes I think for example; people are ashamed of feeling a certain way. So then they sort of hide it from themselves. Then they lose track.
 I just haven't thought of that situation sometime.
 To feel it through. 0:24:27.0
 In your (inaudible at 0:25:06.0).
 I think that...I'm haven't gone into it enough to really know you that well. I think that I often don't know what my feelings are about things. Many people I know don't. So my guess is that you don't. But, you know...
 What, how is that? 0:25:54.3
 Let me put it this way...then: I think there are in any kind of situation there are a lot of feelings. For one thing, people don't take the time to think them through, so if you might think about a situation and say, "I was really, now I realize that I was really angry at that guy, but I didn't realize that before. And now that I realize that I was angry then that changes how I feel about what happened. And not only deny, but I might say a little later, "Now I not only realize I was angry but I was hurt by that."
 I guess an example of it is like; feeling all weekend, not bothered by any of this that was happening, then realizing later, say when you come in here, or thinking of coming in here, that there's a part of you that's unhappy and upset about that. 
 That's right.
 That's right. But that person didn't realize about the other person. 0:27:54.7
 I am! (laughter) Somehow like I'm your conscience. Is that how I seem?
 (inaudible at 0:28:17.4) there's a little drawer you can put me in. Close it up and forget it. 
 Which is; what has the same principle? 
 By putting it into little time bits you think well I only have to be honest for the next hour instead of thinking I have to be honest for the rest of my life.
 So that bothers you much less than other kinds of... 
 Would you be sorry now? 0:31:40.9
 So I guess that's part of what makes it hard to change is that you really want the benefit you can get by conning people. You really want that money. 
 It's the fact that you were able to snow them.
 That made you feel like pleased with yourself?
 Pleased with your abilities.
 It's like feeling that coming here say every week, gets you back on some track and then during the week you slip off of it. 0:34:11.3
 But that...I guess...go ahead.
 Well let me ask you this; If you had not seen the mayor and your hair had not been cut that day on purpose, what would have happened when you went?
 But you wouldn't have cut your hair for that?
 That you'll be able to influence them. Away from...
 You don't think it's bad what you planned you mean? What you hoped?
 You were just the picture they wanted.
 Because that's very hard with just one person? 
 What's the difference there?
 Protected?
 Oh I see, I see.
 You can keep it at a distance. 
 Where as with just a few people there's a real danger...somebody's going to push you around (inaudible at 0:39:02.8).
 It's easier with the groups you (inaudible at 0:39:02.8) so about. 
 Your much more able to be yourself because I guess (inaudible/crosstalk at 0:39:38.3).
 Oh, I see. 
 So, you're much better at...what? 0:39:47.4
 So it's much easier to impress...and get the right impression across to them. 
 And there's that guy outside the door that does this. It's really...it's like although that disgusts you; well I guess you were saying there's two sides to it. It disgusts you and yet it appeals to you. 
 How does he feel about it?
 Yeah, do that.
 And what do you want to do to get somewhere? 0:42:32.0
 So it's like being smart.
 And do you feel like proud of being able to do that?
 No
 You mean you can't win with him?
 But it seems like he's stronger than you? 
 You mean you have a belief that you can do them.
 ...a real belief that you can do this, or do anything. Really if you put your mind to it, try hard and work.
 It's like everybody could do...(inaudible/crosstalk at 0:45:28.7)
 If they realize it. And I guess you were saying that like, I could be honest too. 
 You could be honest. That would really be an achievement. 
 But you're feeling very, very far from that. 
 Well it sounds like this person is ready to, but I'm not sure that person isn't ready to.
 But how does he feel about that? How would he feel if you said to him (inaudible at 0:46:36.6)?
 And how does he feel about that if you (inaudible at 0:46:44.7)?
 What does he say?
 But you'd really have to be in command of the situation all time (inaudible at 0:48:08.2). Or all he has to do is what? Put me in the drawer.
 Get too busy to think about him, to think about you.
 You'd say, "Well, this is much easier. It's the easy way out.". 
 I'm not sure what you mean.
 Why...
 Are you going to get bored by them or is it me that's going to get bored?
 ...(inaudible at 0:50:22.0) what...what...
 And so if you use analogies... 0:50:43.0
 Is that part of it?
 Is it that you want more variety when you express yourself?
 It's limiting?
 And if that's all you use, you just depend on it to much.
 Give it some kind of context, is what you're really taking about.
 Felt bad in what way? Like today, how did you feel? Are you feeling bad about it now?
 Where all that you've had to say about yourself you were somewhat unpleasant.
 So nothing that's really going to disgust you, or discourage you, you mean. Is that what you mean?
 Will I be able to live up to what I want to do? There's a real sense that things will really change after...
 So it's like you need some explanation (ph) or understanding of how you've behaved and also said, "well how could I possibly act different." (crosstalk)
 You picked it up?
 I guess you sound a little unhappy that there was nothing else to pick up?
 Pretty non-thinking...
 You're afraid you'll just repeat that. Or worse.
 Hey.
 The door that's by the stairways?
 Oh OK, I see...
 Right, right, right. OK, then what you do is you press the code into the keypad there, which apparently I have not given you yet. I apologize for it.
 I can tell it to you or I can text it to you.
 OK, [let me do it right now] (ph).
 Right [I see] (ph). OK. So, OK. Is your phone number still 508 something? [00:01:05]
 OK. All right.
 Outer door code is (pause) # [inaudible].
 You're welcome. And totally ignore the thing where it says that you can, like, page me or call me or whatever, because you can't.
 Let's see. The way to get out, I would take the stairs down and just go out the front door. On a couple of occasions over the years where they've actually locked it so you can't get out from the inside, which is bad, fire hazard wise, but (pause), like, almost all the time you can. So just go down the stairs to the lobby and then go out those doors. If that front door is ever locked, what you can do is on the far staircase—so the one not by the women's room—02:11) not by the women's room, but the men's room kind of, the end of the horseshoe hallway there? When you get down to the lobby, you can take a—go through the door on the right, which would take you into the lobby. If you go to the left, it will take you into a little courtyard next to the building. And I've never had an experience (inaudible at 02:32) be locked. [00:02:31]
 Sorry for the...
 ...pain in the ass (inaudible at 02:38)
 (inaudible at 02:48)
 Well (pause) that's all very important, I'm just not yet sure what to say about it. [00:04:47] (Pause) Yeah, that (pause) I'm not sure yet what to say that might be helpful.
(silence)
What else [pops into your head] (ph)?
 [I mean] (ph), about that or just whatever.
 How so?
 Is it that things occur to you that you don't want to talk about, or that you don't seem important enough to you worth talking about? Or that your mind quite literally goes blank? I mean, that happens.
 I don't think it consciously feels this way to you, but I wonder if at another level (pause) there's any feeling of, like, a stalemate between us where (pause), you know, you just said some things that are quite important and quite (pause) powerful really. And I have responded with, "I don't know what I'm going to say to this] (ph)."
 And, you know, tell me something else. And, again, I know this is not sort of common (ph) to where you're coming from or, like, (pause) but I wonder if there's some (inaudible at 07:47) (laughs) of, like, "No."
 (inaudible at 07:57) didn't hear what you said. No. (Pause) Which (inaudible at 08:17) that it might be a bit (pause) frustrating or a bit of a disappointment when I don't really do anything like what you've already done. I don't really have much of a response to it.
 Yeah, I see. So, in the way, you know, it's such a bomb that I don't know. What is that? I do know what a bomb is but what did you mean by that, that it's because it's such a bomb that I don't know what to say?
 (inaudible at 10:01) sort of dramatic? Or like you (pause) [have something to say] (ph) and...
 I see.
 So I'm like almost a bit overwhelmed by the suck.
 Which I guess further suggest my (inaudible at 11:02)?
(silence)
 What is it you don't like about them?
 Yep. (Pause) I—this may already be clear, but I'll say it in case it isn't—I think they're important. I think (pause) they give us a chance to get (inaudible at 12:41) more directly into things you're struggling with.
 Well (pause) what we're talking about is pretty close to what happens when you're at work, around your productivity there. [00:13:01]
 And (pause) you can't have this kind of—I mean, you could I guess, but, you know, you can't really have this kind of conversation with your work or your boss. But you can with me, as much as it sucks. And (pause) it's often (pause) easier in one way—though I know more kind of charged and difficult in another sense—to understand what sorts of emotions and fantasies really are at play in how you act...
 ...when we're sort of talking about something you're doing here. (Pause) Yeah, but (pause) and I guess (pause) I'm not sure what you're worried about in feeling self-conscious, but I suspect it has something to do with being found by me or by you yourself to be, like, wanting in some fashion, or (pause) (inaudible at 15:10) as well, but you refer to self-consciousness (inaudible at 15:16) emotions (inaudible at 15:20). But (pause) again, I mean, I pretty sure that it feels crummy to feel that way—self conscious—but, you know, if it did make you feel bad about yourself, again, that would be something we could look at it because it would be likely (pause), you know, sort of important what led you to feel that way and why (inaudible at 16:10), stuff like that.
(silence)
It seems (pause) possible to me that (pause)—OK. So, this isn't something that, again, I think you're (inaudible at 17:04). And you unconsciously, like, clearly, you come here to get better.
 (inaudible at 17:15) understood. But it wouldn't surprise me given the number of things that we've talked about if you also sometimes start with something that you know is (inaudible at 17:27) that's going to lead you to feel like you're styminging (ph) me.
 Like (pause), again, it seems plausible to me that growing up with parents like you had and having the sort of problems that you have at work (pause), you (pause) sort of—my experience, like, some opposition or, like, conflict or—how do I say it. Like, (pause) and at one level you can feel as if, like, you're in a fight or a disagreement and that you, like, put stuff out there that, you know, can shut things down. I mean, like, growing up with (inaudible at 18:37) dad like yours, I sort of imagine this, if it's true, as being a kind of a survival tactic, like, you just need pretty industrial strength measures to, like, try to ward off what's getting thrown at you all the time.
So again, if this is (inaudible at 19:03), I would see it, you know, as a kind of (pause) something that could [rattle that] (ph), in which (pause), again, (inaudible at 19:28) what's going on could be one of the things that's getting in your way at work. You know, that you're (pause) at one level though clearly not at others (pause) interested in your proposing what your boss wants you to do or (pause) starting progress your boss is interested in making. Unfortunately, mostly at your own expense. But (pause) in a way, that's maybe unconsciously something out a bit. But I'm not wedded (ph) to this.
 Sure, sure. (Pause) Well, it's the same old boring thing for me. Just, like...
 Yeah, whatever comes to mind. I mean, often (pause)—I don't know if I could be considered to be a little bit subjective (ph) of that, like, (pause) often in therapy, you know, one's responses to—we call that an interpretation (pause), it's like, (pause) if it's about an unconscious dynamic then it's usually not going to be something you consciously sort of agree with or disagree with, you know, in a (inaudible at 21:21) way, because that's not—I mean, right?
So usually, it's like the nature of the way one responses that's partly (pause) embarrassed on, (pause) whether it can be useful (inaudible at 21:42) look at things. So, for example, (pause) you say to like a little kid, "You know, maybe now would be a good time to go clean your room." And they go, "Waaaah," you know, or whatever. Like, there's a reaction—it's not about, well, you know, I don't think it would be a good idea right now to go clean my room, you know. It's, like, a different level of response with being dead and (pause), I mean, for anybody, that's often what, you know, (inaudible at 22:18) about. (inaudible at 22:30).
So what else do you have?
 Do you enjoy it?
 That's too strong a way of putting what actually happened?
 (inaudible at 28:12) really self-conscious?
 Good for you.
 Yeah, I imagine you're worried you're essentially (pause) when you put yourself [out there] (ph) you're going to get whacked (pause) in a pretty humiliating way. (pause) Which (pause), I mean, I think there's a lot of other stories that really fits. But for starters (pause), you know, (inaudible at 29:44) try not to be so much more a reflection of (pause), you know, being badly treated starting with your mother who was herself really couldn't nearly have known at the time that (inaudible at 29:59) off-key.
 So your decision, with which I imagine was probably (pause) three parts, "I'm not subjecting myself to this anymore," and one part, "Fuck you all."
 (Laughs) That you would never sing again.
 I mean, which would be the perfect (inaudible at 30:33). (Pause) And...
 Yeah, that's, like, something you would've enjoyed, that you would've, like, felt good about.
 Not in the slightest.
 Right. I think (inaudible at 32:10) the teacher was an asshole.
 Oh god.
 Sounds (ph) very terrible.
(silence)
I wonder if it's so terrible that it echoed in kind of the things you heard at home, you know, like (pause) sometimes the things feel better even things are really bad at home. Like, you know, (inaudible at 33:01) nice and reasonable grownups in school and get a little perspective early that not everything is like it is at home, you know, but clearly that's not—you didn't happen to be lucky enough for that to happen.
 Attempted to really figure it out.
 Right. (Pause) Were they able to be helpful to you at all?
 Oh, (inaudible at 35:04) like...
 Yeah. (Pause) We're going to stop for now, but we'll talk more (inaudible at 35:43)
 Aww, gee. I'm sorry. (inaudible at 00:00:11)
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Where do you put it?
 (chuckles) I'm impressed.
 Yeah. [00:02:02]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (inaudible) second guess yourself. (inaudible) had to happen. [00:03:57]
 Did she like you best after your dog died? [00:04:56]
 Yeah.
 Well good.
 Right.
 Oh, yeah.
 Yeah.
 I can imagine it feels pretty empty at home without him.
 Yeah.
 What do you mean?
 That's not fresh in your mind somehow? [00:09:23]
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 (inaudible at 00:10:00)
 (laughs)
 Yeah.
 Right.
 You haven't got the hardship paperwork in yet? Is that what you mean?
 Yeah.
 He was how old?
 Nine and a half.
 Yeah.
 What's the question?
 Uh—
 Yeah. Like shy? Or reserved? [00:13:21]
 (inaudible) Buddy hasn't been in the ground a week and look what you're thinking (inaudible at 00:13:37).
 And a free pawprint. (inaudible at 00:13:59)
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Oh good.
 Yeah.
 The money from the closing?
 Have you heard of those kind of groups? Are you familiar with them?
 Mm-hmm.
 Oh. That's good.
 Mm-hmm.
 (inaudible) something good to focus on.
 It's just sort of a bright spot. And there aren't many bright spots so you kind of can't help it. And it doesn't have much to do with the reality. I mean I'm not saying it could never work realistically but it doesn't seem like your attention to her is related to — I mean it's a fantasy. Which isn't to say it couldn't be a reality. It's just it has a life independent of what's going on. (pause at [00:23:48] to 00:24:02) You're really fuckin' lonely and you haven't had somebody who like sort of cared and desired you that way in a long time. [00:24:26]
 Uh-huh. That's pretty raunchy.
 Last I checked, no. It was like forty- percent chance through the day.
 (laughs) Well you know you don't want to be too sure of anything. (laughs)
 Yeah. Be nice to get out.
 Uh-huh.
 (chuckles)
 Right. (inaudible at 00:26:19) that means.
 I see. Uh-huh.
 Yeah. So what did you trade to?
 Oh my God.
 Right.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah. Well that's good.
 Yeah.
 Don't you have an app?
 (inaudible at 00:31:28)
 I don't know. (inaudible)
 You can't?
 Oh! I didn't know that.
 Good.
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Mm. How are the kids? (inaudible)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So do they know what he had?
 Sure.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Quality of life.
 Yeah quality of life has not been good recently.
 Uh-huh.
 Sounds like the day he would've wanted.
 Sounds like the day he would've wanted.
 Wow. (pause at [00:38:25] to 00:38:39) That would be pretty hard to watch.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 Mm.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Good.
 (inaudible) I'm sorry again about Buddy.
 And congratulations on your MVP.
 Uh-huh.
 Gotcha.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah. [00:00:50].0
 Wow.
 Good for you.
 It's good to have something go well. 
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 In terms of your health? [00:01:49].1
 Uh-huh.
 It was just inundated over tax free?
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Gotcha.
 You're fried.
 Yeah, we'd actually been talking about it a lot (inaudible) making you go cry about yourself.
 (inaudible) something like that.
 Uh-huh. [00:03:00].5
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, that's fine. I know what...
 Yeah. 
 Uh-huh. [00:03:55].3
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Well, Wednesday you can really sleep in late, can't you?
 I see.
 Right.
 Right. [00:04:51].8
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:06:06].3
 Yeah.
 I see. Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 It's nice when things are really quite special.
 Uh-huh. [00:07:24].4
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:08:45].0
 Uh-huh.
 Call to just say, "Hello," you mean? [00:09:38].3
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Why did they want to get rid of him?
 Hmmm.
 Oh, Jesus.
 That's awful. [00:10:31].0
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 I see. Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 (inaudible) [00:11:35].6
 Right. Like a stand-alone.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh. [00:12:31].7
 Uh-huh.
 Oh gosh. 
 That's terrible.
 Uh-huh. [00:13:56].3
 Yeah. Like pretty much a bully?
 Yeah. [00:14:38].3
 Uh-huh.
 Oh God.
 Uh-huh.
 You mean like uh—some of the—the mean things he said have kind of stuck around—
 —you can't get them out of your mind?
 Uh-huh.
 Right. The fact that it would actually be easier to waive where it came from and stuff, in that then you'd be able to have like more perspective on it? 
 And kind of distance yourself from it in a way that it sounds like –
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh. [00:16:14].1
 Right.
 Ok.
 Right. [00:16:53].3
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Do you have any thought about why the lousy things he said stuck around?
 Uh-huh.
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 I see. And it was just much harder to fend them off? [00:17:46].3
 Right. 
 Oh God. [00:18:33].6
 Yeah, it sounds really bad.
 Uh-huh. 
 Hmmm.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:19:46].8
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:21:21].2
 The Miami store? 
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:22:19].0
 Yeah.
 Ok.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:23:07].8
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Hmm.
 Uh-huh.
 I see. [00:24:32].2
 To avoid getting (inaudible) in the short-term?
 Actually, it sounds like your confidence was completely shot around him.
 I mean, the way this guy was getting –
 Uh-huh.
 Wow. [00:25:16].9
 You were (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:26:13].5
 Yeah. [00:27:08].4
 (inaudible)
 Right.
 I see.
 Like he was feeling you out, kind of? 
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:28:42].7
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, that's—
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. [00:29:38].0
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 I see. [00:31:08].7
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 I was wondering –
 —a lot of the things that you described about Cincinnati have to do with the way they really care about the people who work there. 
 Right. [00:32:02].6
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Right. [00:33:17].1
 Right.
 You made up for it?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. [00:34:26].9
 Uh-huh.
 Oh my gosh. [00:35:31].1
 Uh-huh.
 Oh, that they—
 I see. Wow.
 And was that this manager or was it somebody else?
 I see. Oy (ph).
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Right, right. So they were being kind of—
 Hyperbolic.
 Oh, I see. 
 Yeah. 
 Right.
 Right. [00:37:11]:0
 Right.
 Hmmm.
 (inaudible)
 The only thing I have (ph) is that it might hurt.
 Yeah, you feel guilty about –
 Right. [00:38:29].2
 I see. 
 Yeah. 
 Right.
 Uh –
 (inaudible) or elite or –
 Oh. [00:39:28].6
 Yeah. It's a bit mysterious to me where you get these ideas.
 Um—
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. That's pretty heavy, yeah.
 Sure.
 Sure. [00:41:33].8
 Yeah, people get really provocative. 
 Uh-huh.
 Oh my goodness.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right. [00:42:11].6
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Right. [00:42:53].8
 Uh-huh. [00:43:56].0
 Hmmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh. I think we're going to stop –
 —for now. 
 Next week, yeah. And thank you.
 Sounds good. 
 Interview number 18. I meant to ask you last, oh I guess I thought about it after last time, if you were going to work at the hospital with children if you would be interested in looking through this booklet?
 Yes, I read it some time ago and some of it's good and some of it's kind of that plant (ph) centered stuff at its yickiest. But, you know, the reflections that aren't very much of anything, but it is interesting. And, I guess, you're one of the first ones.
 It's not that it's necessary to read before you do it. I was really scared when I started seeing children. It turned out there was no need for it, but I was just amazed at how shook I was.
 I just felt so much like I didn't know what their world was like anymore.
 It just really freaked me out until I got into it.
 Alright, but then one thing I really liked about it was at least the ones that I saw here were not, at least their problems didn't lie in their ability to be really direct and sort of unsullied by all of this grown up crap hadn't been impaired. So, that I really was very impressed by that. Even (inaudible at 1:54) and I are really was a lovely experience. I'm sure some kids have trouble with that. The one that I had didn't. (2:02)
 Yeah, keep it for awhile.
 Sorry, we were so rushed the other day. I felt like we were still look at your cat very closely and he said afterwards sometimes he feels a little uncomfortable when he sees clients outside and he doesn't know he's going to. So, he both kind of rush and both sort of taken by surprise and that was kind of my fault, but he, you know, felt sorry, but he did like the cat. But I felt we rushed off very quickly.
 I don't seem to be effected by that as much as he is, so. 
 (inaudible at 3:26) look like little hogs for awhile. 
 That's nice.
 I kind of feel like it's, what's the word I want? Like spontaneous for him and just like a really nice thing to do. That makes it nice on your end. In addition to the fact that it's sorely needed at this point, I guess.
 You'll make more what?
 That's where (inaudible at 5:58)
 You look like you don't know quite how you feel about it.
 Well, it almost sounds like from where each of you have been in your own lives like you've never been able to give each other the best of yourselves. 
 You just really never had a chance. (7:22)
 You haven't made sense.
 Why have you done that? There seems like there's a number of different threads that could be, you feel like being left or did you feel like you relaxed into something and let down? Let down or something and then it got cut off too abruptly? Any of those? 
 And then you have to apply all the alternatives to back up was there anything that stuck out for you?
 Was that something, let see, thinking about this thing we have a late date is that something in him? Like you trusted something in him or you trusted something in you, like, what I have in mind is the move, the state, you were I'm not sure if it makes a difference, but the distinction occurs to me anyway.
 I know maybe why the distinction came to me is that I know more about your feelings about how your moods change and your disappointment in that and feeling of how fragile some of them are and I don't know very much about or we haven't talked about the business about expectations from others except that, let's see what do I know most about, really more that you're afraid to ask very much from others. I guess that's the most I know. So, I guess that's why I ask questions. Was there something particularly disappointing to you about what you expected from him and if so what was it or something? (20:26)
 You really did sense some sort of shift in him from, like, it was really almost observable. Not just the effect he has. 
 Yeah, and I think that I've sensed that that kind of thing would be important to you too. Like, I think, I've either sensed or heard you say out right that you don't want to have to ask for this kind of thing either or to have him stay because in some way you need it. You'd like to have it occur as it did that morning, but you don't want to force him in a way is what it sounds like.
 Are you comfortable with how you are with him while he's coming over?
 You mean, like, being so overturned by him leaving the other day or like that?
 Are you angry with him at all?
 Do you sense, is it sort of general on him, I think, or in you relationship?
 Helps define someone.
 Well, you know, it's funny hearing you're saying this about, in some ways two opposites ends not feeling and feeling too much and yet, in a way, it struck me when you remarked about him before. It's like in a way the end result is similar and here's what I mean is that there, it sounds like the both of you have some kinds of fears that keep you a mute in areas that that should be expressed. It's somewhat different for both of you. I don't know what particularly what his mess would be, but I, you know, almost in contrast to your expecting too much I hear you often telling yourself not to expect anything at all. Or, you know, like or not to ask for anything at all and, you know, I don't know. It's like keeping yourself under wrap and it sounds like he does the same thing in a way. I don't know what that's supposed to accomplish. I don't know maybe that's not such a great brilliant formulation, but it just struck me that a lot in that relationship sounds like there's a lot of stuff that neither of you feels free to express, I guess. (30:18)Well, and if that sounds right or not or is that just a fancy conclusion?
 You mean it doesn't solve for you.
 I think, what I'm doing there is not focusing on what you were talking about, but kind of surveying the scene and saying up close when you talk about it that you and your boyfriend have very different ways of doing things. Like you, sometimes he tends to feel where he closes off and defends against feeling anything at all. And you feel yourself overtaken by them and I was saying and I'd like to think about it a little more. That those things have the same end result in the relationship, I think, sometimes. I don't know if it's even useful kind of thing. I don't know if it's an issue.
 Well, that he doesn't express his feelings to you, which I think is something that you think is better or implied and sometimes you don't express your feelings to him or feel that you can or feel that you don't do it effectively. And I guess the thing that struck me when I thought that was that each of you is silent in an area that's very important to each of you, whatever it may be. And that may be something like nowhere near where you are right now. If so forget it. It just kind of struck me. 
 I've really gotten myself off the track with that stance, I think. I can see you really have to, I was having a train of thought. I was thinking I, you know, that okay well that might be right, but so what was my feeling after I delivered it and such. I don't know with such fanfare that's very close, the more I got myself off track, okay. (34:09)
 Have you had the experience of trying to extract the kind of feelings you're talking about and wanting somehow to keep them to yourself? Or have you in the past kept them to yourself? Is that a fair or answerable question?
 No, I'm wondering if you have had the experience of trying to express these feelings that you feel are primitive and sort of inexpressible and learning to keep them to yourself? Or have you, like, sort of always kept them to yourself?
 What's it been like when you express them or when you tried to?
 Can you explain why? I mean was it the content? Was it the way you were when you expressed them? (39:58)
 Yeah, and it sounds like right now too you don't see, I mean, you feel like the feelings themselves ought to change before you could start to work them through. At least that's the impression I'm getting is that they ought to be somewhat different maybe in intensity or something. It isn't just a matter of learning how to do it. 
 So that's your copy, and take that (inaudible) be for your reference.
 Sure.
 Yes. I did receive - I received your packet of the questionnaires today. And so I want to review them.
 Right. That's how I base-you know, in addition to the discussions that we've had. And then once you submit it on the questionnaire, then it helps me come up with some idea about treatment goals and the treatment plan and issues. 
And so this week, I will be able to compare what I have and look at what you answered on the computer instruments, and then report back to you next week on the things I'm formulating as far as how I see the therapy going and get your input-just see [you back] (ph), see if we're on the same page.
 Yeah, a treatment plan. And basically - I wish I had one here to show you. But basically, what's in the treatment plan is that I identify - first I get like a social history and how the measures look-the computer measures. And then come up with a formulation on what I think some of the issues are around the presenting (ph) problems like your distractibility, you know-past relationship issues. You know, these sorts of things and how I see it playing out. 
And then what we'll do is - and then what I'll do on that plan is come up with what are the target behaviors that you want to focus on-that we want to work on together? And then coming up with goals and strategies. So interventions that we may work on in these sessions to work on and improve that behavior. And so I'll come up with my ideas and then run them past you, of course, and see what you think about that. 
And then we're going to have some discussion on if you think these are good or bad or something-an addition (ph) that you think is more relevant as far as key areas to work on and how to work on them. So I'll present that to you, and then you can - if you agree with what we've come up with and you sign that and then that's when we'll begin to address and work on those areas. [3:11]
 Okay. Say that one more time, Marcus. You said, "Every - "
 Oh okay. You use a piece of paper?
 Okay. So you begin work and you write some things, and now the distracting part comes when you start filling in your letters (ph) -
 Okay. So you start doodling and drawing?
 Of optimism? Of hope?
 Optimistic? Like hopeful or (inaudible at 5:48).
 Optimizing? [5:54]
 Okay. There's a lot of dead time or time that you're not -
 Using-where you could be using to do something more worthwhile-more profitable?
 Do you - the actual - so let me see if I understand this. It's frustrating because you may be given an assignment to read a chapter and to do a homework assignment attached to that chapter. But instead of reading that chapter of homework first, you read all the background and previous chapters?
 And by the time -
 But at the same time, you're not getting the actual assignment completed.
 Because you have homework and then you have all the things that you have to prepare for for the exam.
 Well I want to say to you, Marcus, is I think it's very good that you followed my suggestion about going to - at your library. And you found a comfortable space and a place that limited the amount of walking around and distractions as far as television and computers. And so I'm happy that you found that comfortable. 
But it sounds like still the issue isn't even in that space. There are still distractions in your mind-other things you've found to distract yourself, even in that space. And that is concerning to you 'cause the issue was still there. [8:43]
 How can you tell that it's not enough?
 Have you gotten the scores back from the quiz? [9:37]
 So how do you know how you did?
 So how is it if you haven't gotten the scores back from that quiz, how do you know how you did on the test? What scores you got?
 You said that you haven't gotten these quizzes back.
 You have gotten them?
 You haven't. Okay. So if you haven't gotten them back to you, how can you tell if you did bad or good on it? If you don't have a score in front of you?
 Is there some apprehension?
 Okay. It's important for me to understand-'cause sometimes what happens, Agusto, is that we fear that we've done bad or that we've had poor performance, but we don't have the reality that we did bad or good. So we don't have anything in front of us; but we just assume that we've done poorly. 
And that's different from knowing that you've done poorly and feeling bad about it. So you can feel bad about it and just fear that you've done poorly, or you can actually feel bad about it and know for sure that you've done poorly. Which one do you think it is?
 Let me ask you this. Do you do that typically before you even take the exam, too?
 Before you take the exam, do you have thoughts about how you're going to do? Do you try and predict how you're going to do before you actually sit down to take the exam? [12:05]
 What does that look like? What do you predict usually?
 Right. The most difficult.
 'Cause sometimes, Marcus, the mind is very powerful in how it works, you know? So if you in your mind-sometimes if people predict that they're going to fail-"You're going to fail."
 Yeah.
 How much of that do you think is an issue for you? Do you have these defeating type of thoughts or things that you say to yourself-about you're not going (inaudible at 13:13) failing, not going to be able to concentrate? And then it actually -
 Describe that feeling for me. What is that like?
 Tell me a little bit about that.
 But the other subject that you didn't particularly care for was -
 How has your class attendance been here?
 Oh. Okay, so that's different.
 Okay, so you're comparing yourself to -
 And what was the nature of your absence or missing those classes?
 Okay.
 Can you describe that pain for me?
 Violent?
 What's helping you control it a little more now? How are you [getting it] (ph) now?
 And so what's helped you get better at that? Like what are you doing differently?
 Oh okay. What do you mean by that? [17:53]
 I want to ask you a question; but I'm not sure what you may think of it or - whatever the case is, I'm going to ask it. What would be the worst thing that can happen if you were to be successful? If you were able to pass these exams, get your degree, or whatever the case is that you're going after. What do you imagine to be some of the worst things that can happen?
 For your what?
 You said what now?
 It's what?
 The worst scenario. All right. So these you fear as far as your job and folks at work being disappointed in you having to back to Brazil and not being able to fulfill your career aspirations. Your family being disappointed or their reactions. [21:05]
 Yeah definitely. If you're circle of friends and circle of influence is very successful -
 So yeah, you definitely want to be up there -
 Sure. Sure.
 And that makes a lot of sense, Marcus. And I'm wondering are there fears that you have if you were to be successful? Say that you were able to do everything and to pass all your exams, and you were able to go back home having succeeded-you know, having accomplished. Are there any fears or worries that you have?
 Say more about that.
 Is that something you think will be expected of you-to go onto that direction? If you get your -
 When you get your master's-do you think it would be expected or people will expect you to go (ph) for your Ph.D.? [23:46]
 (inaudible at 24:32) contribute to the society or to the community?
 Say again?
 A mortgage?
 I just asked you those questions, Agusto, because some people, when they're challenged with success or being challenged with achieving certain things-and they find that they don't do as well or they struggle with doing what they have to do in order to get that success-some people find out that it's really success that they're afraid of. 
And so on some unconscious level, they sabotage themselves from achieving that. And I'm not saying that this is in your case, but some people that I've worked with in the past sometimes-especially if they say they want it really bad - something that they really love to do and they really want to achieve it-sometimes what they have found out is that part of that is scary.
 Oh okay. And so what is it like me presenting that to you?
 I was just asking what is it like for you now that I'm bringing that up to you? What's coming up for you? [26:50]
 You're talking about not taking care of your body during that time?
 Let me ask you this, Marcus. How did your family and your friends and your job, maybe-how did they respond when you didn't finish the program in Portugal? What was that like?
 What do you mean?
 It was frustrating for her or frustrating for you?
 Sure. And so how did she respond?
 How could you tell? [29:46]
 In an academic setting?
 So she suggested that you move to Ireland after this?
 How did you feel about that?
 Sure. Tell me.
 You're going to do something with your life.
 Sure.
 But you felt bad for yourself, because it's like, "What? You want me to leave?"
 Did you question her love for you?
 How did your mom respond when she found out that you were coming here for school?
 So how did she respond? What did she say or what did she do? [32:57]
 How do you feel - I mean, let me ask you this-because with the older brother, right? Do you ever feel as though you're compared to your brother or - like you have to compete with your brother?
 Is that any source of your anxiety and your (inaudible at 34:36)?
 What about your dad's expectations and your dad's - how did your dad respond when you didn't finish the program in Portugal?
 When did you - I guess-help me understand this. When did you notice-or first notice-that you had problems with concentrating?
 I was kind of very active, but I couldn't even stay in one place. What I mean is - I really don't remember too much, see-because I think that life for me passed very fast, and I didn't understand anything. Sometime everything that happened - [37:30]
 Do you see what I'm saying?
 Before Portugal?
 Do you think those type of problems -
 Were you ever tested in Brazil or did they do that kind of testing or had a concern about attention deficit?
 You've heard that before?
 Okay.
 Right.
 What I did was I did talk with the people here as far as getting you tested for the attention deficit-when we had talked about that. And I said what you do is either when you go back to the front desk, you can let them know that you want to be tested for attention deficit disorder, or you can call the number and let them know over the phone. Because they have to do an intake sheet like they did when you called to come see me - or come see a therapist. 
They asked you some questions and things. If there isn't anyone in the waiting room, they can do that type of process-and ask you a couple of questions and things-and they'll sign you up for testing. If there is someone in the lobby, then they'll just have you call back because of confidentiality issues and things. They may not be able to sit with you and talk out loud in a public space about what you want testing for. So that's the way that you can get the testing here. Okay? 
So either at the front desk when you [leave out] (ph) today, you can let them know you want to do that. And then they'll either take your information right then or they'll just tell you to call back-to call up here an schedule it.
 Yeah. Because that's important for us to figure out, if this is like something biological like you said, or if there was something going on - especially if you're saying this is an issue that you had early on in childhood maybe, and it was just never diagnosed and never taken care of. It could be a medical thing or it could be - was there some type of trauma and things that may have occurred in your early childhood that has manifested itself through your not being able to sit still or not being able to concentrate. You know? 
And what comes to my mind is the war. You mentioned in one of our first sessions that, rather than you as a child focusing on some of the atrocities or just how traumatic living in wartime could have been, you guys focused on how fun it was to build fires together and the toys and these sorts of things. 
And maybe if we took a step back and really looked at that time in your life, and talk about maybe some of the unconscious feelings and things you had about the war or your parents divorce or whatever-those different things that maybe you haven't had a chance to really talk about and really look at. And maybe that influenced your difficulties in concentrating in school and concentrating in relationships. And now with Portugal and then here. Who knows [42:42]
 Okay? But I think, as I'm thinking about these things, I think it's important for us to begin to explore some of those times in your life-the things that may have been painful, that you may have just haven't touched on or looked at.
 Yeah, put them back-you know, the boxes and things, right? Because that - you know, who knows? But I think it's important for us to get you tested to see if this is what you have-because then there's medication and things that help. And you mentioned before that you had taken Ritalin legally, and it seems to help you to focus. So maybe - do you remember telling me that?
 Okay. So maybe -
 Okay. So how did you get it then, if it wasn't prescribed?
 Okay-strong. Okay. Well I thought you said - (inaudible) use that term anymore, but thanks for the -
 Okay. Well that's - it's good that you'd share that with me. Okay. Okay. So your friend was a doctor and prescribed it to you. And it seemed to help you?
 Right. And he was able to write you out one, and you went (inaudible 44:43)? Okay. That's clear.
 Oh underneath? Underhanded? Or go to the street person who's selling [that thing] (ph)?
 Okay. So what do you think about what we're talking about now?
 What do you think about going back and looking at some of these periods in your life, that you maybe haven't thought about? [45:43]
 What do you think about doing some work around there (ph)?
 - that doing this type of work has been useful?
 That could be difficult it seems like. Maybe? Do you think?
 Well maybe that's something we can talk about. We have to begin wrapping it up here soon here now. But maybe next time we can think about what was your time structured like as a kid as far as studying and as far as taking care of school. Like what - how did your family address taking care of school? You know-were you made to sit down and do - or were you allowed to get up and do - you know? 
So maybe it's not necessarily about anything that's painful as far as your childhood; maybe it's just the practices, you know? If you hadn't been reared in a setting where you were made to sit down at the table and have certain study habits and things, when you're in an environment where you're required to do that, then that could be difficult if that's not the way you were taught and reared.
 Sure.
 Okay, well that's what I think - I think is very useful information; and we can begin looking at that-that period and what school was like and how these private tutors-their impressions of you. And that would give me some good information to try and assess where this is coming from. Okay?
 Yeah, we have a minute. (laughter) But go ahead and ask your question.
 So it's not like you may want to talk about some of the problems that you're having at home?
 Definitely. We can do that. If you want to talk about that next week, we can definitely do that.
 Okay? Okay, Marcus.
 The visit of testing? I can find out how much that will be, if there is a cost associated with it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Let me set up our appointment. You want to come next week?
 Next week same time?
 Okay, on Thursday?
 Do you want to come on that Friday? The next day?
 How about 11:00 on Friday? Or we can do 1:00 on Friday.
 1:00?
 Let's do 1:00, so if you want to (inaudible) a bit, you can -
 So just ask them about (inaudible) there. And good luck on your midterms, okay?
 You'll do fine-you have to begin telling yourself. [I going to do what I can do this] (ph). Okay?
 So what happened?
 And you feel depressed.
 Did this happen since the Lamictal?
 Okay.
 Yeah and you weren't having this.
 Were you?
 Yeah.
 I guess we'd better stop it then.
 No, it's doing something weird to you.
 You're not taking that Chantix or anything for, that people use to stop smoking?
 Yeah.
 Well, we'd better stop it.
 It's funny it didn't happen in the beginning but -
 But there was no pattern to it?
 Well, you're not - 
 People are coming after you?
 That's not the opposite.
 All right, let's figure this out.  We stopped the Lamictal.
 It's got to be connected somehow.
 No but what do we do next because we're still on, well, we're in a place where antidepressants aren't working.
 But the other latest thing, believe it or not, is to try this super folate vitamin because there's more in this than you can take, you know, vitamin pills but if the person, it turns out there's a genetic strain of people that need it and then it makes the medicines work.
 It's still not what this can do and the reason I know that is I just read an article yesterday about it.
 Well the only other thing is, I'm afraid to use Depakote because that's kind of like Lamictal.
 From that, okay, so the only other thing we've got is some of these newer major tranquilizers.
 Well, but I'd say six or seven years ago, the only thing I would have had to say is shock treatment so at least we have another alternative.
 Because you've got the Wellbutrin and the Lexapro still.
 Well, we should put that back.
 Lamictal.
 No, no, well then let's put back the Lexapro and try the vitamin thing.
 You won't need to take what you're taking.  
 I've only had one other person out of a lot of people who had a reaction like that but -
 Well, as a matter of fact, it fits something I was reading, this is very complicated about the glutamate receptors.
 It's very complicated but, well anyway, at this point, glutamate can act on these four different receptors and ketamine, if you take ketamine, it blocks this one and gives you a schizophrenic like psychosis, somehow that happened to you.
 Yeah because it's just like PCP does it too, it makes people crazy, but PCP and ketamine are the same thing really.  Okay, so you must have been blocking this receptor, so we've got to stop doing that.
 Theoretically, I could give you the folate and Lamictal, I don't know, and then here's another, it's not going to happen to you but if that receptor gets over stimulated, probably in schizophrenia or some other things, it then starts causing neural cell death.
 This isn't everybody so, you know.
 Yeah but see how complicated it is.
 Well gaba is over here, glutamate with another enzyme can become gaba and then there's gaba A and B receptors and the B ones, when they fire off, they inhibit other cells in the brain and so does this but this gaba A receptor is the one the benzos work on and alcohol works on.  I'm just beginning to kind of -
 Yeah, this is bad news.
 Yeah, I know, I remember doing it too.  Okay, this is the super folate.
 This says 725 but it's -
 It's a metabolite beyond folic acid.
 It gets in the brain better, we just better do one of those for now.
 All right, well truthfully you better come back pretty soon, like next week, you know, see if we can get some stability out of this.
 It's not a case, whatever did happen with this will?
 Where you weren't supposed to do anything.
 Yeah, after a big show.
 A few thousand to the lawyer.
 Oh, that's great.
 No this is truly -
 Chemical.
 Well, I'd better give you, I expect when you wash the Lamictal out of your system, you know, that stuff should stop so it'll be a day or two.
 But if it doesn't, I'm going to give you a couple, like Abilify, it's one of the major tranquilizers, because that should treat it until you get back in balance but I just don't know what the Lamictal did.  I've got one guy, he's a doctor, ironically an anesthesiologist and I think he messed up his brain with ketamine.
 And he has weird reactions to everything I give him, unfortunately, the [DEIDENTIFIED] got a hold of him so now he's watched by them but he has a letter that says he's not a substance abuser.
 I'll just move him in over your house, maybe together you can figure it out because I can't.
 Well, you haven't been schizophrenic but you just had some pretty crazy dreams.
 I mean that's bipolar stuff.
 Yeah, some people do that, yeah.
 I saw a lady, she was depressed, she couldn't get out of bed, one shock treatment, the doctor that did the shock treatment said she woke up, jumped up off the table and was manic.
 Still it shouldn't - 
 That's because we changed something.
 Well this should be far less than you had before.  This may make this work better.
 Yeah, just stop it, it's not, you can stop that, it's not something you have to go slowly.
 No.
 Because it's a seizure drug really.
 It's very strange, I'm sorry that happened.
 Yeah, I know, what a business this is.
 No.
 Did you have any panic attacks during the day?
 All right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I'd say go on and take it because it's inhibitory, it calms down other things.
 So that'll be your main tranquilizer plus I'll give you some of those other but these newer, all three of the new antipsychotics and I did one study on one of them, have proven to be mood stabilizers.
 Well because they work on dopamine like the old ones but they also work on serotonin receptor, different ones, different serotonin receptors so, you know, they are doing something that no other drugs ever did.
 Well that's the other thing that I just read convincing articles about, in depression and schizophrenia, if you don't treat them and keep on treating them evidently, the nerve cells with either die or the dendrites will die so you might have a nerve cell but it doesn't have all its dendrites, you know, so it's - 
 Well - 
 They said both of these illness are progressive neurodegenerative diseases but not to the point where you're going to end up demented evidently but we've always said, you know, if somebody had bipolar or schizophrenia a long time, they would start to lose IQ points, I mean that was kind of how we said it.
 Sometimes stupid on you.
 Yeah.
 No but we've kept you on the medicines basically a long time.  I mean we've done the right thing.
 Yeah, well that should, you know, do it.
 Yeah, right.  Well, all right, don't get manic on me.
 Well that's the main thing you came back in saying.
 All right.  Keep trying till we get it right, that's all I can tell you.  Seroquel 50, but I'm really saying use Xanax more.
 That's what I'm going to give you just in case you keep having these crazy dreams.
 Did you read? 
 I haven't had anybody get them so that's -
 They're nightmares.
 Yeah.  All right, I put an article out there, that's why I asked you about that Chantix, that can do this.
 And one guy got really crazy on it evidently but then I went back and I asked my son because him and his friends are the ones I gave it to first.
 And they never told me about the damn dreams.
 They said they were having dreams about homosexual relationships and crazy shit, these are lineman for the county.
 And I said why didn't you tell me, you know.
 Well our job is to give people what they need not what they want.
 So in the dream you tell them that.
 Right.
 Well it kind of proves I guess that a lot of what you did was to get people to accept you, like you.
 So you didn't do it, so now they're coming after you.
 You know.
 We'll get you out of it.
 All right, just try this, get this going and let's see.
 You probably ought to come back Monday or Tuesday or something so we can get this right.
 You won't be.
 No.
 The average stay is only three days, so you might as well go to the beach.
 All right, well it'll be interesting to see what they make of this.
 So, uh, [PATIENT NAME], I just, uh, wanted to say thanks for doing this, and we, we'll just try to go about a, a typical, normal session here.
 So, um, looking back, I, I last talked to you 3 months ago or so, back in April, and here we are in the summer.  So overall how, how are you, looking back at this —
 Hum.
 Well you're really getting hit with all kinds of stuff.
 What do you attribute, uh, your success there to?  Any, any thoughts?
 The little ones keep you going.
 All right.  You've been through this depression thing for a, a long, long time.
 And I assume there's been times along the way where you've been through rough patches like this.  Um, what would say in terms of how you're doing now, and in how you've done other times?  Is, is this —
 Um—hum.
 Has your health been o, okay, while, while everybody else is having these troubles?
 Are you taking anything for your breathing these days?  [INAUDIBLE].
 That, that's new.
 Okay.  Have you been consistent with your psychiatric medications, pretty much?
 Never, do you ever miss?
 You're real consistent.
 Um, I know you've got the 3 Luvox.  You've got —
 That on a consistent basis.
 Um, what about the other as needed medications?  Are, are you using much of those?
 Okay.  So that's half a pill.
 So does that average out to one a day?  Because sometimes you don't and sometimes you —
 Have 2.
 How often would you say there's a, a day good enough that you don't take Klonopin at all?  Is that very often?
 Well at least you're talking once a week.
 That's —
 It's not —
 So bad.  Are you sleeping well with your —
 With your half a Trazodone?
 Any change on your thyroid or Zocor or lisinopril?
 [INAUDIBLE] prescriptions?
 Are you staying active?  I know the kids keep you active.  Are, are you doing anything for yourself in terms of exercising or —
 Getting out?
 Could be.
 And when I hear you say that you thrive on the tough times, and you're always there for everybody else, making sure, and —
 Giving them the strength and support, it would make sense to me to say when you're giving and giving and helping and helping everybody, not just physically, but emotionally —
 That can make you tired.  That, that can wear you down.
 In a tired, it feels physical, but it may be a lot mental, in that kind of way.  I don't even know that —
 It has to be.
 Are those people also having problems that require your assistance lately?
 Right.
 Definitely.
 If somebody called you up in the midst of feeling so tired that you can't even function, and said they need whatever —
 Can, can you say no at that point?
 So at some point your body tells you, that, that's all I can do.  There, there's nothing more I can do today.
 Does that make sense to you that those kind of things should bother you?
 I don't want to say it's your own fault.  It's your, it's your personality —
 I don't know if anybody's ever said it to you like this, but it's okay to say no.  At, at some point you've given all you can give —
 Or you've done all you can do, and at that point, whatever it may be, if it's drawing that line somewhere —
 It's, it's okay.
 You can't give every ounce of energy that you have to everybody else and have nothing left for yourself.
 You're your own worst critic.
 It's not s, somebody else who, who is going to criticize you for saying no after you've done so much except for you.
 So if I give you, just as an example, if I told you, "I take 10% of my salary every year, and I donate it to charity," what would you think of me?
 I didn't say I give 100%.
 I said I gave 10%.
 You think I'm a great person.
 But it's on, but it's only 10%.
 I'm not giving everything I have.
 But would, wouldn't a great person give more than that?
 So a great person would give 100%?
 If you see where I'm coming from, it's that you, you can give less than every ounce you've got —
 People will stay, still say, "Hey, you're a great person."
 You give enough.  You do what you can within your means, within your ability.  You, you just said it to me.
 You can be a great person by giving 10% in, in that charity example.
 If someone calls you asking for help, you can say yes to them one time out of 10.
 When you happen to have enough energy and enough time that day.
 You could be a great person for that.  So why beat yourself up if you only say yes 9 times out of 10.
 Right?
 Why should you, why?  You, you just —
 Answered your own question.
 You have to work on giving yourself permission.  You, you just told me 10% is okay for me.
 Well, by gosh, 10% is okay for  you.
 Fifty percent is okay, 75%, what, whatever percent you want to do.
 If you use that an, example, wouldn't you tell me I was a nut job if I said I gave 100% of my salary to, to charity?
 I've got a wife and kids at home.  I've got a mortgage and food and, right?
 If I gave every last thing that I made away —
 Would, wouldn't you think I was kind of strange?
 Well what about your wife and kid?  What about, what about yourself?  What are you going to eat?  What are you going to wear?
 Where, where you going to live?  What, what are you talking about, you gave it all away?
 You, you can't.  That, that goes to far on that extreme and it, it's not even good.
 I, I'm just trying to lay a groundwork of, of a way of thinking of it.  It's certainly going to take a lot of time, and talking yourself through it —
 And —
 Experiencing time and again how to do, but I —
 Hum.
 See you've been on the Luvox now for a while.  I —
 I think out of all the different things you've tried that you, you've found something that's, I think, at least —
 The cream rose to the top, some —
 To some degree.
 Although, I, I don't want to everything is all perfect, we're, we're hanging in there.
 I mean, you're getting through a tough time.
 So, goodness, don't we, uh, ask are, are you just about ready to get all your prescriptions refilled here?
 Um—hum.
 Yeah.  So if I can help you out for a, a week or 2?
 Yeah.  All right.  I have to see what I have.
 But I think, I think I have some.  Do you have any thoughts if the Luvox CR works any better, worse, the same as the regular Luvox?
 I have, I believe I have coupons for Luvox CR.  So I don't know if, if a brand name with a coupon comes out cheaper of if sticking with a generic without a coupon comes out cheaper?
 It [INAUDIBLE] what the difference is between the [INAUDIBLE]?
 Out of your own pocket?  Hum.
 You know what, I'm going to, I'm going to give you a prescription for the Luvox CR.
 A prescription in addition to the samples with the coupon, and if I'm, if it's more expensive —
 We can change it.  You call me.
 I have a feeling it may be less expensive, because for one thing, we can cut 3 pills down to 2.
 You won't, won't be buying as many pills.
 And then we have a coupon.  So with all that, it may come out cheaper.
 If I'm wrong, we can change it.
 Well that's, it all helps.
 The mail in prescriptions are relatively cheap and affordable.
 As compared with the Luvox.
 It's all, all the new ones are higher [INAUDIBLE].
 Raining, rainy all the time.
 Makes me wonder about all that global warming.
 Well I think —
 Well I'm going to get you some refills here for all your prescriptions.  Um, I'm going to write them for 3 months.
 We'll see how the price comes out on the one with the Luvox CR and, you, you just let me know [INAUDIBLE].
 I think that there's —
 Doctor out there is going to be in big trouble, and it just reminds me —
 Not, not all doctors are good doctors.
 Some people lose —
 All about the money.
 It is.  And it's a, it's at least a good answer for me when people start asking for more and more pills, and more and more narcotics, I can point to that and say, "That's not" —
 "The kind of doctor I want to be."
 If you want, if you want all those kind of prescriptions, you need to go somewhere else.
 Addicts are addicts.
 They, they want as much stuff as they can get.
 And then you need more.
 Sure.
 That, that's a little over the top.
 It's a lot over the top.
 Some, something —
 Something bad is going to happen to that doctor.
 May, maybe more than one doctor.  So, would have loved to see, but, um, money gets in the way of too many things sometimes.
 I [INAUDIBLE] and, see what I have.  I'll meet you up front with, with, uh, some samples.
 And tell [NAME OTHER] I'll set you up in three months or so, and you've got your prescriptions.  I'll get you some samples.
 Have a good rest of your summer.
 How are you doing today?
 Mmm.
 Mmm. Does feel scary. Especially when you don't know where it's coming from.
 And you said it lasts for about an hour?
 I know it's hard...you probably don't sit there with a stopwatch so it's hard sometimes to estimate. [00:01:03]
 What makes it go away?
 What was it about the hug cuz you said it feels like a physical pain too?
 And so that pressure feels good?
 Seems like you're so worn out and so overwhelmed that these symptoms are kind of popping back up that have been absent for a while.
 Not necessarily. Um, I mean it could mean that it's time for a medication change because maybe they're not working for you in the same way that they used to.
 Well, these are decisions for the psychiatrist to make, you know, so it might be scheduling your appointment to find out really if there are other options for you at this point.
 Um, do you have an appointment scheduled? Okay. So let's see if you can get an appointment scheduled to have it on the books and...
 Right.
 Well, in which case we work...we keep working until we can see what happens and this might...you know these episodes might dissipate before then. You know we might figure out other ways to manage the symptoms but you might as well have an...since it sometimes is hard to get an appointment right away...
 ...let's have it on the books for checkup and followup anyway.
 Ya know sometimes medications do lose a little bit of their effectiveness over time.
 But they don't generally just stop working. You know this is something you've been on a while and it's been working for a long time, so it's unlikely that all of a sudden it's just not going to have any effect on you any more ya know, but sometimes people do kind of acclimate to the meds...
 Build up a tolerance.
 Well, I don't know if that's the case. It might be. It might not be, ya know.
 Right, or if that's that particular psychiatrist's limit or if sometimes things change over time because there's more research and more experience with a particular med, so I don't know if that's a hard-and-fast rule. It might be. It might not be. Um, the only other thing is that, ya know, it might be that something else is going on and we just don't know. Ya know you said you couldn't put...couldn't identify a particular trigger for these, but maybe we just haven't figured it out and maybe when we do you'll have a little bit more control over it, um, and it might not be a medication issue at all, but clearly you've been increasingly uncomfortable the past couple weeks, whether it's the panic. Ya know two sessions ago the panic was really strong and now it sounds like, you know, the flip side of that, more of the depressive type symptoms, feeling sad and wanting escape is popping up. [00:05:36]
 And that...okay, so that...
 What was the pain like? Tell me about the pain.
 Mm hmm, but you didn't know what else to do, so that's where your mind went.
 Did you act on that thought?
 So somehow you were able to stop yourself from acting on it.
 Mmm.
 Is that pretty common for you right now?
 And have these sad episodes where you think about wanting to hurt herself, are they, have they been mostly at night?
 Or is there any pattern to when they're coming up?
 How many have you had this week?
 Okay. I'm trying to get a sense.
 So it's been pretty concentrated.
 I'm sorry you're having such a tough time. [00:09:15]
 Well, there might not be a solution right now. Part of it might be, ya know, tolerating the distress. That coping is two things. Coping is—one - having some sort of mechanism to try to make it better. And the other side of coping is being able to tolerate a certain level of discomfort. And they balance each other because the better we get at tolerating discomfort, actually the less uncomfortable it becomes, right. But that's where it builds up over time because what we learn is that for the most part discomfort passes whether it's anxiety or panic, sadness, pain—emotional or physical. Generally these things kind of follow the Bell curve. It starts off generally at a lower level, rises and then fades off again.
 And practicing being able to tolerate that distress, it reminds us every time that oh, it gets worse, then it gets better. And that makes it a little...just knowing, reminding yourself that it's going away...it's not going to stay like that forever, makes it easier to bear. I think what makes it so scary is when you're in the midst of something like that —whether it be a panic attack or this different type of discomfort that you had this past week —what makes it so scary is feeling like you don't know how to make it go away so then we start thinking what if it never goes away, what if it's always like this. And that's more scary than anything that's gonna last for just a short period of time, cuz for the most part we can handle anything for a short period of time.
 So if, you know, part of what you did the past couple of days when this happened is you got through it. You didn't necessarily know how to make it go away but you were able to get through it and it did go away, and that's actually, ya know, being able to tolerate the discomfort is a coping mechanism. It doesn't feel like a very active one, but it is one and you managed. Um, so I think, ya know, partly building that, being able to do that, that's part of the work.
 You know other coping mechanisms it sounds like, ya know you came up with some things that worked. Getting a big hug, that emotional support; and maybe also that physical sensation helped. Ya know if he's not around maybe the idea of pressure is useful. That's not harming yourself...
 ...but sometimes just the physical sensation maybe grounds you a little bit, gets you grounded in another sensation and, um, sometimes you can get a sensation of pressure from doing something active because it's using your body...
 ...in the same way. So some people feel, ya know, find going out for a walk or a jog, just doing that kind of physical activity almost mimics the idea of pressure on your body. Jumping up and down puts a lot of pressure on your legs and distracts you. So that might be some...getting up and moving might be something that helps to distract you and just gives your body a little bit of physical stimulation.
 Right. That's not a...at that time that was not going to work, but...
 Yeah, or maybe even doing like yoga poses or something that creates some sort of tension.
 Mm hmm.
 Okay, so I mean something you're more comfortable with. Something like situps or something would create...
 ...creates muscle tension right there doing something like that.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Well, we didn't have...absolutely right in that. We didn't have much winter weather, but the sunlight, lack of sunlight is the same whether it's warm or cold.
 It feels a lot more tolerable.
 Well, maybe you'd been getting out more then too.
 So about the sunlight thing you would have had it been snowy and slushy and freezing cold all the time.
 So you may have gotten, you're right you may have gotten more light this winter than you usually do, but this time of year we are getting access to a lot more light, so not using the sun lamp probably isn't affecting you that much right now.
 But the exercise, and you did really notice some difference when you started the vitamins, and those might be...well, it's something you mentioned to me.
 So it, ya know, it stood out to you at the time. So those might be things that are kind of coping mechanisms to put back in place...
 ...knowing that you feel a little bit more fragile right now than you usually do.
 Mmm, yeah. Yeah, it's I mean...I know that when you started that it was something you mentioned to me as having noticed an effect, um...
 ...and you know why...I know it's not really a controlled experiment because it's not like, ya know, you only changed one thing at a time.
 It was enough that maybe it did really give you some relief and so maybe doubling up so that you can keep it really consistent...
 ...at both places because it does seem like you are more sensitive right now.
 What were your thoughts like during those times? [00:16:49]
 Mmm.
 What do you imagine it would be like for you to watch him go through something like that? To hear him say that?
 Mmm...yeah it's hard to watch someone you care about be in that kind of pain.
 What do you think hurting yourself would do?
 That's what the urge feels like.
 Yeah and they imagine it's gonna provide a relief.
 Mm hmm, but that's a pretty healthy aversion. Keeps ya safe.
 Mm hmm.
 It seems like in this case your aversion's working for you. It's keeping you safe.
 The problem with cutting is that there's often mistakes, infection, scarring.
 Unanticipated, unintended often.
 Mmm, yes.
 They're only thinking short term. I think that's...the urge is to want to make the pain go away in the short term, but it's not just a short-term pain.
 That's true.
 We don't think that any more (chuckles) I mean, yeah. Evidence to the contrary.
 Yeah. I don't think it solves anything.
 For a short period of time. People generally describe, people who engage in self-harm behavior, is that it does provide some sense of relief in the moment, but that relief is very short-lived and often replaced with not only the same feelings that prompted the self-harm but then also on top of that generally people feel some sort of shame or guilt or have other secondary problems, um, from that. Ya know feeling badly because they're hiding it from people they love and people are worried about them, or feeling badly that people are worried about them because they haven't effectively hidden it, and so there's a whole host of other feelings that generally come along with using a coping mechanism like that that's not really a healthy one. It's self-harming as an attempt at coping with the pain, but it brings along a whole host of other things that generally people don't feel good about. And so you have...[ 00:24:06]
 It doesn't seem to at all.
 Yeah, it doesn't seem...
 Well, I think it's sort of like, ya know like evolutionary instinct that doesn't work anymore because the instinct to try to stop pain is a good one...
 ...right? And maybe it's one of these things that, ya know, we feel types of pain now...
 ...that perhaps didn't exist back then and so that instinct to avoid pain is still a good one, but because our world has changed so much and the pressures of our world have changed so much, that we're experiencing pains that there aren't good evolutionary, um, behaviors for. Way back when, when the only needs that people needed to meet were find food, find shelter, there wasn't a whole lot of time for existential angst.
 And there may be a set of complicated emotions that we deal with now that we didn't deal with back then because the, um, the responsibilities and things like that are different. You're being asked to do things beyond finding shelter and finding food and you deal with a complicated set of emotions. You feel lots of guilt from your parents. You feel a lot of resentment. I don't know that these are things that our ancestors dealt with all the time.
 That I don't know.
 That's a really good question, Georgia, and I don't have an answer. [00:26:22]
 There's some theories, um, but we don't necessarily know that they're right. I mean a lot of what people think about is that sometimes...a lot of times someone's instinct to self-harm is in response to more emotional kind of pain that seems more ambiguous and amorphous, um, and having something that's very visible, that's very easy to understand. You know why a cut on your arm hurts. That seems straightforward to us.
 Um, so having that sort of congruence between what you can see on your skin and the sensation that you're feeling is less complicated than some of the other types of pain that we have, whether it's feeling really sad and not knowing why, it's a difficult feeling to have and that can be that pressure in your chest can often be associated with feeling really sad. It's confusing to us to not know why we feel a certain thing, and so it might feel less badly to have a pain that you know exactly why you feel it, cuz it doesn't have that confusion. So that's some of the theory behind what might lead someone to self-harm. That at least it makes it concrete, easily understandable, seems to make sense, so the confusion's taken away, um...there's also, um, some physiological reaction to physically harming yourself. When we feel pain, we feel physical pain, our bodies release endorphins and adrenalin to counteract that automatically, um, and so sometimes that helps us actually not feel something that we would think would be very painful but because our body automatically starts to produce some hormones, it kind of protects us from feeling that pain, and that can feel, ya know, almost pleasurable. The relief, or release of that can almost feel pleasurable. You don't have that same thing kick in necessarily with emotional pain. [00:28:43]
 That is one of the reasons that exercise can be really useful, because it does kick-start some of the same types of endorphins, um, that help make us feel good when we feel good hormones.
 Yeah, it's hard to kick-start that, but you will feel the benefit if you can do it and if you can get yourself motivated to get moving.
 Mm hmm. It's hard to get out of that cycle.
 Schedule it into your day.
 I mean create some structure which I think might also be helpful. Right now you have a lot of flexibility in your schedule, which means a lot of unstructured time to think and feel. And sometimes thinking and feeling are useful but when it's undirected and your thoughts tend to wander toward things that are uncomfortable, those don't feel good and it leaves you reacting to thoughts that are sometimes really hopeless in nature, leave you feeling out of control or trapped, and those are really hard feelings to sit with.
 Cuz having a lot of unstructured time is not the healthiest schedule for you. Which isn't unusual and it doesn't make you strange of abnormal. Most people do better when they have more directed time. Ya know, unless all those directed things are things they don't like, but...
 You can get yourself into a routine of having consistency with when you get up, what you do. You're not filling all that time with writing cover letters, but...
 It will be here.
 Yeah, probably the healthier thing for you.
 Right. But you can't do that at 2 A.M.
 Well, I think taking a walk, getting some physical exercise is one coping mechanism, but it needs to be at a time when, ya know, that's the only thing that you can do, and it needs to be at a time when that's a safe choice.
 Would taking a shower or doing something like that, would that help to distract you and get through the moment? [00:35:37]
 Didn't work.
 Yeah. I think some people find it helpful because it's doing something. It's seems to be a little bit distracting. Whereas taking a pill, yes you get the effect of medicine but it doesn't give you that like 15 minutes of doing something. Where sometimes getting in the shower, going through the routine of washing your hair, washing your body can be enough of a distraction to just kind of get through what probably is the worst of the moment and the thoughts.
 But everybody responds differently and if it feels like that's not something that would helpful to you...
 Probably.
 Mm hmm. It would be a coping shower, not a getting-ready-for-the-day shower.
 And it doesn't sound like it strikes you as a...as a potential coping mechanism.
 Mm hmm.
 And that might be something we can try. [00:38:07]
 I've met other clients who knit and spin like you do and they sometimes find the repetitive motion, um, sort of meditative. Ya know kind of having a specific set of steps that they're following helps to keep their mind off of worries and thoughts and just, ya know, whether it be, ya know, the repetition of the motions of knitting or the repetition of the process of spinning, um...I have someone who weaves a loom, that just the monotony of it is kind of relaxing and almost helps them to enter a meditative state, so that might be something that you could try as well.
 And, ya know, there's no...no one's harmed by that. Nothing's, nothing's wasted. You're just...(pause)
 Well likely...likely it will pass more quickly if you're able to help yourself in these ways and you're not gonna fall asleep in the midst of feeling that way anyway...
 ...so helping yourself through it so that you can get to a peaceful state...
 What we want to avoid is dwelling on the thoughts and feelings associated with it, which might exacerbate it and make it last longer and feel more dire. Really our job is to help you get through it as fast as possible, and sometimes that's being able to sit with it until it passes and sometimes there may be something that you can do to help ease it. (pause)
 Yeah. I hope not but...
 ...but there is certainly the likelihood that it could pop up again.
 Well, let's see if we can, um, maybe ease you into it a little bit, cuz it sounds like it does feel intimidating because you haven't been feeling very enthused or energetic about it, so is there a way to walk part way home today? Like could you pick up a different bus than you normally would so that you get a little bit of the walk but not the whole thing if it feels so overwhelming?
 Uh huh.
 Well, maybe you could take a walk together. [00:42:04]
 There's a good idea.
 Take advantage of it while it's here, because I think doing things will actually make it...make you want to do them more.
 It's getting started can be really hard and it can feel intimidating, but once you get started it tends to be easier to keep that going. Especially if you get some benefit from it.
 Your body may have gotten a little out of practice but you can get right back into it.
 Yeah.
 It's better for you not to, ya know, but if you can't make it...it doesn't have to be perfect to be useful. If there are days when you can't do, do it exactly how you would want to that doesn't mean that you can't do it.
 Yeah, these are good thoughts to have. This is being able to find the flexibility of finding things that you can do.
 So you noticed the difference cuz you haven't been...you had been doing lots of walking before.
 (Chuckles) He can take much longer steps than you can.
 And you can build that back up but you don't have to start where you were before. Any...and remember when we started trying to get you to find more ways to be active, we started with little steps of, ya know can you just move a little more. Can you just extend this and take the stairs sometimes. We looked for little ways that you could add stuff in and you just added on to that. Taking really long walks. So start back where you were before, not where you left off. Just looking at ya know like, like you just said. You came up with the idea of well I guess I could walk to the street and then take the bus from there, taking the train from there. Little ways to add it back in, and you'll build back up to where you were before pretty quickly I bet.
 And you're gonna want to plan some time to stop for breaks since you haven't done that kind of a trek for a bit. [00:46:50]
 Yeah. I bet you can do it, but just plan to give yourself a little extra time if you want to stop and take a break or if you want to go slower, but I bet you'll surprise yourself once you get going. You're body hasn't been ruined. Your body hasn't forgotten how to do this.
 But you can do that. That can't be that heavy.
 Mm hmm.
 Well, he's got a lot more mass to spread it over it sounds like.
 Well, why don't you give some of these...these things a try and hopefully they will help. And if you have another one of these episodes just remind yourself that they do end and hopefully that will make it a little bit easier to sit through it. That this is not a sign that, ya know, you're not going crazy. It's not a sign that something is permanently wrong. I think you are more fragile right now than you usually are, so that's showing up in different ways, but that fragility is something that, ya know, can be helped. You've been under lots of stress for a pretty long period of time, that they are external stressors that, ya know, you don't know when they're gonna end, but they are temporary. You will eventually find a job. You will eventually feel much better about the money situation because of that. We don't know when that's gonna happen, but it's not gonna be forever and I think that that's a lot of what...a lot of the stress that you're carrying right now.
 And I wish I could tell you, ya know, that there's...what the foreseeable end of that stress would be but you know full well that I can't tell you that kind of thing and you don't know when that's gonna end. Nobody knows. And that uncertainty is hard too.
 Why don't we stop there for today and have our normal time next week.
[End of transcript 00:49:21]
 Ah, oh no.
 Oh really?
 I'm around Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday next week. Are you as well?
 27TH.
 Okay. [inaudible—01:16] to the recordings on, do you mind just texting you and I'll...
 I guess I can...you know I can do that on...
 It'll probably take me longer, but...
 Good for next week and it sounds like it's the following week; that one day.
 I think often something you want when you're telling me things.
 Yeah. You sort of hunkering down as you're talking for a possible edit war. And wanting to make sure you have my backing and what you feel inside.
 You okay?
 Well there seems to be one person in particular that you have some trouble with not trusting you. [Pause.]
 Oh well, yeah. I was thinking you.
 Yeah, but right, yes. I mean it's your mom too. But I was thinking you. [Pause.]
 And there are others like in here...[pause]...I haven't generally heard that it was a measurable need. And nobody else is really going to know...[pause...] so there's going to be doubting how you're feeling.
 Yeah. [Pause.]
 Right.
[00:12:56]
 Yeah.
 Uh huh. [Pause.]
 Yeah, yeah, I have that sense too.
 Well, I don't even really know what's going on with this. [Pause.] Or I will speak for myself. I don't really know what's going on with this. I mean there seems to be some parallels with your mother. You seem to wind up, at times, with people are employers and people that are ...where this gets played out between you and other people. [Pause.] But...[pause.]...yeah, I have also, at times, wondered...[pause]...whether there are...[pause]...some ways that some of the cycle stuff that you eventually trace back to this. [Pause.] Of being dominated. [Pause.] I want to be clear that I'm not trying to apologize that, but I am saying I can imagine some of the feel could be similar, although...[pause]...generally like actually that's fun whereas let's say at work it sucks. But I find there may be some similarities. It wouldn't be the first time somebody did something that sexually was fun, but in real life, wasn't. [Pause.]
[00:21:34]
But anyway, [pause]...I mean I guess part of the reason I sort of bring that up is because you know one possibility for feeling...I think you are sort of stuck in this is that unconscious sexual gratification in it, and that's how it happens. But there is certainly more going on if it's there at all. I can explain more of what I mean, but most of what I'm saying is I don't really know what's going on with it.
 So I think it's pretty important in your life. [Pause.]
 Could we say that began because one way of looking at what happened with Josie or one aspect of what happened with Josie is that the distinction of between this, that it being kind of fun and playful in the bedroom and crummy outside got blurred. [Pause.]
 Uh huh.
 Yeah. [Pause.]
 Right.
 I think we're going to stop.
 This is Client Grogan Interview 15, Client Grogan Interview 15
 Where did you go?
 So it's sort of like . . .
 Like you kind of bushed right now and not wanting to be here. And the only reason you're here is because it would have been worse to have come tomorrow. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. [00:01:16]
 (inaudible 00:01:30).
 How many kids?
 How many?
 Fifty-one kids and you and someone who didn't know what she was doing.
 What's (inaudible 00:02:38)?
 Yeah.
 No it sort of sounds like you feel like you're doing me a favor or something?
 Like he's getting more out of this than I am. [00:03:07]
 Yeah I'm hearing that, but I'm trying to explain what the, what that's about. I mean you ought to be glad I'm here at all.
 Yeah, (inaudible 00:03:49) that I can put my finger on something about sort of feeling two ways about coming here or something?
 Well maybe in only one way like, by not really wanting, (inaudible 00:04:07) one hand, not wanting to come. Like it's a hassle and I ought to be glad that you come at all, it's enough of a hassle. I don't just mean the driving it's some kind of inside thing that's a hassle too.
 Today. 
 Maybe. I don't know about any other time. 
 That's good. And the other side is like wanting to come, and I presume you must have because we're here. [00:04:34]
 Yeah.
 Or take it out on me or something. [00:05:04]
 Yeah (inaudible 00:05:27).
 So maybe (inaudible 00:06:16) lay down? 
 That'll make it better?
 You don't like yourself when you do that huh?
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Uh huh
 You know I'm hearing you. I may not, what I think what you're saying is that you don't really like to keep it inside of you. Like you'd rather like get it out and say it. And then like by saying it, like maybe dismiss it or something rather than sort of walking around thinking I'm cranky, I'm tired, I'm this.
 Going on and on more than it's worth.
 Hm.
 Hm.
 The thing, the thing I'm trying to get a feel for is what happened that was good? What happened?
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Okay, what I'm hearing isn't so much about the fight now, what I'm hearing is that it was nice to have him like be honest or something. Is that . . . ? 
 (inaudible 00:11:27).
 Like you were able to kind of stand up for what you felt. 
 And not be cowed.
 And that felt good. 
 Yeah it's also like he was human or . . .
 I don't know something like that. 
 So in some way you were.
 Yeah. It was new and I guess it made you feel a little stronger or something.
 More solid.
 Because it sounds like from how you speak you usually kind of give quarter and back down.
 It's like you felt secure when you argued with him.
 And that feeling secure allowed you to state your piece.
 (inaudible 00:14:05).
 Uh huh.
 Uh huh.
 You mean like, let me see, you mean like they're not . . . You mean like they're going to leave you anyway, and it's better like they should die because that way it isn't because of you or because of them.
 Maybe it's, maybe it's that you wish they'd die.
 I think that's what you're saying.
 No, no, no, no, no, no. You wish they, I guess I must not be understanding, but I thought you were thinking about look, I have a, I wonder if I . . . when I think about their dying when they go away because like I know the relationship is going to end. I know they're really going to go away and better they should die then go away. Because if they die, that's a random act of something or other rather than having them go, really leave me because then it's because I'm terrible and they wish to go.
 It's like you don't, it's like you're not aware of like wishing that. All you know is that when people go like you really start thinking about what happens if I never see them again? What happens if they die? 
 And it just triggers it off in you.
 Uh huh.
 More? 
 Yeah, so . . . but that's not such a big issue with other people?
 Hm. Like what's wrong with me?
 Yeah, it's like what's wrong with me that I'm obsessed by . . . or not obsessed it's too strong a word, but like it always enters my mind.
 Uh huh.
 Hm. Then it had a purpose.
 Why does that seem so strange?
 Yeah.
 It sounds like you're, you know, somebody that's sort of bizarre, and you're kind of horrified. That's too strong a word, but something . . . appalled. But I guess I don't really understand that.
 Hm. Sounds like the feeling that people who meant something to you were going to be snatched away from you and like a grief with that.
 Where did it come from? (Laugh)
 So if like, if that had happened, and you would have felt decimated then it would make some kind of sense.
 But there's no cause that you . . . no incident. 
 What did I do? 
 (inaudible 00:21:51). 
 I have some (inaudible).
 (inaudible 00:22:28).
 Well the way you say that it makes it sounds like it has to be . . . you have to really be running amok over that or something to justify having said it like it has to be because of numerous discretions or malfunctions or something right? 
 Okay and therefore it's not worth talking about if you don't know. [00:23:12]
 Uh huh.
 Yeah. (Inaudible 00:24:36).
 Like (inaudible 00:24:55).
 Hm. Does it seem like that?
 Like you really want men to hurt you?
 It feels right that they do.
 Seems like you expect it, that's how it happens. [00:25:58]
 What do you mean?
 So it sounds like every (inaudible 00:27:24) in yourself, being yourself is.
 It doesn't get you anywhere does it?
 Oh. [00:27:55]
 Oh, it really does sound like (inaudible) you feel sort of like you're . . . like up against a wall or something. Like you've exhausted everything you know about it.
 Thought it?
 How does that make you feel?
 Frustrated with men you think?
 Yeah?
 Yeah, it's like you have this whole block of time. And like now you carve it up, and it just sort of lays there.
 And you know . . . sometimes.
 Like time . . . it's a clich�, like time really hangs heavy.
 Sounds like you can't sort of get a handle for how much help this is because you kind of forget what's new and what's old.
 So maybe it's really not any help at all or maybe it's pretty much of a help.
 Uh huh.
 Sometimes you're kind of medium eager to come and sometimes you are, "What the hell am I doing behind this steering wheel bucking this traffic?" 
 Uh huh. 
 So it sounds like the fear is more palatable than the searching.
 Like what you're doing doesn't seem right?
 More should happen in here?
 Sounds like this is almost a real, seems like a real test for you. 
 Uh huh, uh huh.
 Yeah, I guess what you mean is something like sometimes you think there is but you're not sure what the dimensions of it is going to be. It's like you don't know what to call it? Or what is, yeah, I may be solid through all that other stuff but what is that? What do I . . . ?
 But it also sounds like you were saying before that like there's something special about making it in here.
 It's your last best hope.
 And if you blow this one, you're really lost. 
 It's very frightening.
 And that makes you feel (inaudible 00:37:39).
 Like I don't know but I'm wondering if you're (inaudible 00:37:49). I'd like to be.
 I wish I could give you something.
 What are you thinking?
 I meant that.
 Like on the one hand, on the one hand you're very, very like desperate or pressed to kind of set some solidity to you or I'm not sure what that is exactly, but whatever that is. You, on the other hand, you wonder whether it's really true at all.
 Yeah, yeah. 
 So you said that before makes it sound like one aspect of that is sometimes it feels like you're a whole bunch of different people (inaudible 00:41:12). I don't know what that is. (Inaudible 00:41:20) people or feelings or ways of being? What? 
 Ah, okay let me try. I think I got a handle on it. Like one way to flip something like do I am I a kind of person who loves or hates, whatever that is and like the flip is well maybe I'm the kind of person who is ambivalent. Is that? No. (Inaudible 00:42:05)
 Like I'm, what I'm trying to get a hold of is you know it sounds like you kind of reach to kind of get a hold of yourself and (inaudible 00:42:26) slips through your fingers 
 And it's like what is that? What do you? What are you trying to . . . ?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Like what is really me? What's really real about me? When you strip, when you strip away . . . I don't know what, how I act or when you strip something away it's like what is real underneath that? [00:43:07]
 Yeah. Maybe those layers are all real.
   You can't tell him that?
   Did you ask him?
   But you do know what's going on.  You described it very clearly, many times.  But it would be different, you say, you could handle him if he were a woman.  So, what makes that difference?  Why can't you put him in his place and just let him know it's your class, not his?
   But what you describe is his being rude.
   Intrusive.
   It's rude.
   Well, you must have, if you had that response, of what in hell are you calling about?  You know, I mean, that's the indication.
   Maybe it won't work out. I mean, things like that happen.  You describe that at FSO's school.
   What do you think of a male homosexual of the kind you're describing?  You must have more about that than you've said.
   Why not?
   Well, and you're feeling is that you resent his intruding and trying to take over.
   So MME would replace me?
   Well, I mean in the sense of being a central man in your life.
   Yeah, except, I guess, you see, the point, the one thing that you maybe are missing, is that you are, without realizing it, unwittingly tempted to let him become as central in your life as you have had me become, that in a different way, he would indeed become the central man in your life.  You endow him with all these great characteristics, and superhuman characteristics and qualities, even though your feelings tell you that it doesn't fit.  And so you're as much in awe of him as you have often felt in awe of me, as timid as speaking to him as you used to feel speaking to me.
So, in a number of ways, you have indeed — I think you must be tempted, because you're losing me, to replace me in this indirect way, with him.  And that would account for your inability to uh simply deal with him matter-of-factly.  Because you see him clearly — from your description I don't hear any ambiguities — it's been consistent.  And I think uh, your inhibition is because of this temptation that you're not aware of, to do just what you just said.  Let him become more important than MSCZ, and replace me this way, to hang on to me this way.
   Well, I think if you really don't want to, then you'll be able to deal with MME re, realistically.  Not that it will be easy, from what you've said.  It's this whole quality of awe and uh, attributing to, to him these characteristics that we've been discussing, that you've been attributing to me — Jesus, the Holy Ghost, and God, all rolled into one.
   Right.  Exactly.  That's exactly the right question.  Why should you care, unless you're wanting something from him of the kind you have wanted from me?
   That's right.  And I think one of the other things that you have unwittingly been hoping to get from him, well, it's not other, it's an extension of what I just said.  In some way, it seems to me, that last spring, when, you know, accepted him, it was in a, at a point when it was important to you to have a penis of your own.  And I think MME seemed as though he might be a pretty good big enthusiastic penis for you to play with, have all to your own.
   And he's turned out to be just like that fantasy you had of MSCZ, have a mind of his own too.
   But you were looking for a big, powerful penis at that time —
   — to play with, to own, to possess.
   Well, our time's up.
  It happened, I gather, this weekend.
  Do you remember the details?
  When you wanted to hurt him, what did you want to do?
  And fall silent.
  Well, our time's up.
 Yeah. With the newer ones they put in better microphones.
 Okay.
 Oh? [00:00:57]
 I mean the three things you're saying, the furniture, the perfections, and the phone call. (Pause) It sounds like (pause) you're really feeling bad about what you're doing or might do to me and I suspect more so even than feeling bad about it I think you're probably really scared. [00:02:25]
 Are there (pause) particular ways you're concerned about hurting me? Or that you have in mind, I don't know make myself vulnerable to being hurt?
 Yeah or I guess (pause) it doesn't really feel like you're not taking care of me, or are doing something you worry will be the opposite?
 No. [00:08:02]
 I get it, like unbalanced similar but different.
 To yourself or to someone else? [00:12:32]
 No. What made you liken it to paranoia?
 I (pause) I wonder if you're warning me. I'm aware that you are prognosticating about yourself, but (pause) I guess I also imagine you might be (pause) warning me that you're not going to get better, that, I don't know, in various ways you're going to be sort of demanding or difficult for me?
 I see. (Pause) You really wouldn't want me to feel bad or ineffective or like I'm fucking up?
 In case you don't get better.
 Hmm. (Pause, client crying) You're going to blow it? [00:17:13]
 Right. [00:18:19]
 Right, right.
 Yeah.
 Right, yeah.
 (Pause) Yeah I remember, I mean, on the other end of things during my training and they used to do this more when I was in training a little bit, they would have interviews in front of an audience so they'd have a senior clinical person and a patient doing some sort of initial or diagnostic interview or something like that and they had residents or interns or whoever watching. They used to do it more, they don't do it that much these days, but—
 Yeah. It was remarkable though you'd see some patients come in who were, you know, people in their forties with acute schizophrenia or something quite severe who, you know, looked weird and who just clearly hadn't functioned well in a long time and talked in very idiosyncratic ways (inaudible at 00:22:08), and it was very impressive to see the clients who sit down with them and immediately be so comfortable and easy and sort of (pause) it was easy to imagine somebody sitting down and saying like, well I don't know what to say, and they would just sit down kind of right there with the person in a very nice, easy, sort of connected way. [00:22:37]
 Sort of the opposite of what you're talking about.
 I see.
 Like 'have you ever considered tying your shoes?'
 I guess not.
 I think you enjoyed it a little bit too.
 About time. [00:23:40]
 (Pause) This may be totally irrelevant but (pause) do you worry about how I would treat the parts of you that feel crazy?
 Okay.
 Okay. [00:24:38]
 Yeah.
 I don't have the sense so much that this is an issue either, I also probably look a bit younger than I am. Is that a concern?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Seventy-five.
 Okay. [00:25:51]
 (Pause) You actually, at the moment, sound pretty sure of that.
 (Pause) Although it also sounds like a lot of what you're concerned about is (pause) that, not so much for your own sake, but for mine, like how it would affect me. In other words, I think you're concerned about yourself clearly, but—
 I think a lot of what you're saying is that you're concerned about how I would feel at fault or I would feel, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 He's your husband.
 He's your husband.
 Yeah.
 (Pause) Yeah I mean, (pause) I think as far as one way, I'm thinking about what you're describing is (pause) sometimes in certain parts of psychology (inaudible at 00:33:09) have models or sort of relationships as kind of internal or psychological aspects of who it is as kind of like objects, you know like (pause). I guess I keep thinking of the way that you feel like your objects are quite vulnerable and quite weak and very much in danger from you.
 Sure, sure. There's probably a—
 What I'm saying is you (pause) I think experience, anticipate that, imagine that the people you're close to are certainly quite weak and vulnerable in certain ways, particularly to you and your emotional life, especially your depression. And there's a lot I don't know about the story but I'm sure you had moments of that when you were a kid. What you were saying earlier, you're really worried about me being busy and fried at the end of the day and not having time to myself, I know you were referring to what you feel you need. I certainly remember things you said about your dad as well. [00:35:16]
(Pause) And (pause) I guess I'm not entirely sure as I continue to talk about this where I'm going with it, but I started thinking about it in terms of you and James and the way that you (pause) feel more distant from him when can't or don't want to talk more with him about how you're feeling bad, at the same time you think that's not a good idea. [00:36:09]
 And it did not feel like a disaster when we talked on the phone?
 Yep. [00:37:28]
 Yeah I agree, I think it does make a difference.
 Mm-hmm, yeah.
 (Pause) I, umm (pause) imagine that a hard part of this to, sort of, own or be in touch with is (pause) is the part where, I guess in reference to last night, I think it does feel like James is failing you. I know that
 you feel lots of other ways too about it, but—
 (Pause) I guess I think that part is important partially because (pause) it has something to do with what you want which isn't so clear.
 I guess I imagine you did want something from him last night that he was not giving you and it's not clear what that was in that you told me that listening at times is sort of just listening and he had suggestions that in some ways seemed off the wall.
 Mm-hmm.
 It has much more to do with the feel of it I think.
 Yeah. We should stop for now but I'll see you on Monday.
 Oh okay.
 Okay. We'll have to reschedule. It might be easier for me to do that when we meet this Monday.
 When is the convention by the way? [00:03:19]
 In May?
 Okay, are we on as usual? I don't know how long it runs or what the...
 Do you want to check or should I take this...?
 Oh you are going to go?
 Right. Alright so we're not meeting on Thursday the 24th of May?
 Okay. [00:04:10]
 Okay, so we're not meeting the 24th. You'll be gone (pause) returning the end of June. Okay. And when does your job start?
 Okay. So (pause) let's see. I'm just going to make a note that you return on the 21st. Your job starts that Monday. Okay so we would just have potentially Thursday at our regular time. And then you'd said those (pause) appointment times, I think you said 4:30 or later?
 Or is morning possible or should we shoot for after...?
 Alright. It's likely I'll have 4:30 opening up on Thursday. That would be one possibility. Also possible Friday at 4:30 will open up. (pause) Let's see. I mean I have a few things basically shifting around as the academic year comes to a close.
 Alright, I'm quite sure that I will have some 5:15 times opening up by the end of August. I'm seeing somebody who is moving and I'll have, I'm pretty sure, a couple of those opening up by then which I will hang on to. (pause) So, let's see. Would it be okay to let you know — which I guess I might need to do while you're away — by e-mail or something? [00:07:06]
 Yeah, all of this should be pretty clear to me by the time you get back I think. And also, you know, if it certainly is urgent or if it's important I do Skype or phone appointments and things like that. I hope everything is just awesome while you're away but (chuckle) but if it would be helpful to talk, I'd be happy to. Generally insurance doesn't cover Skype or phone appointments. That's the line I've gotten from them. It's possible — because there seems to be some other features that are a little different at your insurance — you could check it out but that's at least of like six or nine months ago when I had heard from them. Although I am happy to try and take those which would help but it does cost that way. But anyway, just letting you know.
(silence from [00:08:14] to 00:08:27)
That also means I guess we have a couple of weeks before you head out.
 Jenny?
 Jenny.
 You started out by saying it seems more so than usual. I mean, in other words, (pause) did it seem like about what you'd expect for these sort of things happening or did it just seem like there's something different going on?
 Oh my God, yeah!
 That's the priest?
 Only vaguely, yeah.
 What is older and younger?
 Okay got ya.
 Hasn't happened yet. (laughter)
 (pause) I mean, (pause) why would you want to be any different? It sounds like the feeling of standing up for yourself as well as other people in a way that you feel good about.
 So it does have a cost for the way you feel? Like it has a cost that way?
 And you feel it's something you don't have a choice about? In other words that you're just going to stand up and say stuff, like whatever you try to decide in advance. (chuckle)
 You okay?
 Gross in what way? [00:24:23]
 (pause) I could imagine a number of reasons why you would have wanted to say something being so disgusted by what he said, but I guess I'm wondering which ones that to your sense are most important. In other words, because you were pissed off at him and wanted to put him in his place? Because if was just terribly offensive and everybody should be aware of how awful it is to say something like that, because (pause) you felt like there's sort of a culture of chauvinism there that you had to speak of? In other words I can generate all sorts of reasons I'm just wondering which ones were most [your main] (ph). [00:26:37]
 Yeah but it sounds like you want some of the other too. Maybe it makes you feel a little bad about yourself. Having read others it sounds like you, I don't know, have some inclination of wanting to feel more like you can be that way and come across that way or something. [00:29:32]
 I guess in the present or the past, in other words, that could be part of you now but... (inaudible) outside or both.
 It's messed up for you to want them to see you this other way?
 (pause) Well else do you think matters to you about your seeing you that way (pause) I mean, before we decide how messed up you are about it? (laughter)
 (pause) I imagine that's an old feeling, just wanting people to like you like that. [00:31:40]
 (pause) I'm not exactly sure what that's about — whether it's about feeling sort of more easily apart of the group in a way? Just sort of more enjoyed by other people? Sort of safer in the group? I don't know. Do you have a sense?
 And that just sounds like really wanting to feel cared about.
 Could we say really cared about?
 (laughter) Yeah, but you really thought he was standing up for you at the same time.
 Yeah. We can stop for now. We'll talk more tomorrow?
 It's been a long time.
 Pretty good and you?
 Yeah something's wrong with it. 
 Excuse me I'll fuss with the testing tape. 
 Right. 
 Yeah I remember.
 Feeling really good?
 Instable.
 In the same situation.
 Yeah you're back's hurting you.
 It affects the way you feel too.
 So you're kind of down today.
 It was kind of a let down. 
 You expected some appreciation and he isn't even around.
 Yeah like you are expecting to walk in and be appreciated. And when he wasn't there you kind of resented it.
 Yeah ...seems not so reasonable to you and yet you can't help feeling that way like you want your appreciation now.
 That's right.
 It's a little earlier ... the 28th.
 That's kind of late here.
 Yeah.
 Quarter system here.
 Right. I just got back from Kansas City just today and am just home for the weekend. I was on a trip South before that. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah right. 
 Yeah you feel like it. Asking yourself (ph) like no this, is the last time. What have I gotten out of it and is there really anything much or anything to enjoy.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah I did.
 Thanks.(Laughter)
 It's like in a funny way like I guess even though in some sense you knew I really wasn't going to do that it's a little bit of a let down that you know like because you're not kidding me. Well now here it is that you expected in another sentence.
 And kind of like having two attitudes at once.
 Yeah.
 Been looking ... I didn't follow you there on that.
 So that's another disappointment.
 Now wait. What's going to be like going back to college again?
 You mean when you come here to the campus? Oh no I ... now I understand right.
 Actually I was just confused you know about at first I thought you meant that you had gone back to school and well I didn't know about that really. (laughter) No I knew that you were interested in the girls already.
 Yeah.
 Excuse me.
 Yeah and just feeling the dizziness come over you.
 Yeah. [12:54][Pause]
 Yeah.
 So you guess something like this would be going on.
 Yeah. Were you implying that you miss having someone to talk to?
 Yeah. You're isolated like.
 And there's no one on your side then. [15:45]
 You can't do it. Don't have what it takes to do it.
 And have to face that all on your own. 
 Yeah. Okay.[Pause]
 Yeah you know. That it was a pressure value or something that maybe was a little bit of help like.
 Yeah.
 Too busy to be sympathetic to you.
 Yeah not as an every day thing. [19:04]
 You'd sort of like to get home and at work like ... there isn't anyone that ... to listen in a sympathetic way.
 Which leaves you a bit...
 Lonely and kind of lost kind of a drifting, unconnected.
 Most people don't seem to need someone to talk to in the same way you do.
 So I guess sometimes you even wonder if it's a weakness? Maybe you didn't mean that way.
 Yeah.
 Yeah because it's something that you need. Something that you want and feels good to you. [21:39]
 Yeah feels like it's you. 
 It's like more work from being at home.
 And you don't want her to be jealous of you?
 But I guess this time wasn't one of the times when you're feeling like you know well let her worry a little [I guess] (ph).
 Yeah.
 No big deal. 
 Because you had mentioned it to her and then she wasn't home?
 I'm sorry.
 Yeah I see what you mean like you'd mentioned it to her and then there she is gone. I'm like it seems almost like cause and effect.
 Yeah with Suzie or what. [29:35]
 Because it sounds just the same
 I'm sorry.(background conversation - on phone)
 Yeah so how do you tell like you just? [31:25]
 Yeah. So you're stuck in a way.
 You want to believe her and yet you don't believe her or you want to believe her and yet you don't want to believe her?
 Yeah right.
 [Inaudible at 33:02] Once you start having your fling you won't want her to be jealous of you but until that until such time as you actually do you want her you want her home.
 Like it a way you think that would be alright with you and then maybe well maybe you ought to not think that would be so good. [34:03]
 Yeah I know.
 Swinging.
 Yeah.
 Yeah exciting.
 Yeah.
 And I guess that's another worry on things too. [36:01]
 Just have somebody (laughter)
 So of it isn't really wanting to assert you know like have people know you've been working hard all last weekend and you're ... they God damn well better recognize it.
 That's all you got. Nothing will get it to bring you that you like.
 Yeah.
 It's almost like putting your pride or something not to sell to yourself for cheap. [40:03]
 You want what's coming to you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. You know they've just given you nothing and for so long. And there's no - lack of appreciation wanted (ph) in that. Must make you just sort of a little bit resentful underneath all the time.
 Yeah. Kind of start boiling but you know you better ... like I've got anything to do about it. Like it's not the kind of angry you could go smash someone with. There's nothing to do except sort of grind it in.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You just have to sit there and sit there. (Phone rings and answers it)
 Yeah. [I'm here a lot] (ph).
 Much more tense when you're driving?
 Yeah like right now when you said that like it seems kind of funny to you and you're laughing at yourself.
 A little embarrassed but I guess feeling like the mature thing to do would be to take things like that more in your stride or something.
 Not I guess not take them so personally or something.
 Yeah. Almost like you see yourself as really childish in some ways. Not what the other grown ups are doing. Like well they did their best but wishing they'd prepared you better for living in the world.
 And so it's like triple hard to go out and act the way a man should act. 
 Feel like you're not manly and feeling more like you're a woman?
 Kind of neutered.
 It seems like a silly idea as you talk about it now.
 Not the kind of idea a man should have I guess.
 Right. I guess not have something that's not having so many demands on you. 
 Don't it's like there's some kind of a reaching and frustration and reaching and frustration thing.
 Like that's certainly one place where you wouldn't want to trade places with a woman. (laughter)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 What makes you say that?
 Having patience you mean?
 You thinking about the amount of time that's left or something?
 I noticed you checked your watch.
 In terms of the kind of patience women have to have in sort of you know women's work is never done. It's - That part of it doesn't appeal to you? I mean you're not cut out for that.
 It's not that being a woman is so appealing I guess it's just the - it's such a strain being a man and trying to be a man and be the way a man should be in your mind. Is that putting it right for you?
 Yeah.
 Yeah you don't really appeal to those stresses on you too.
 Feeling like you ought to be able to take it better? [54:08]
 Yeah. Yeah like if you can't do what's your own field that's deflating in the serious way.
 Yeah. Yeah because yeah ... made you feel like nothing. [56:03]
 So you're not what they're looking for.
 Meaning the field there is something that you're good at and something that you can take pride in.
 Yeah I know what you mean.
 But wanting to hear an evaluation from someone else even so.
 Yeah. Is it that you'd really like to not to carry all of the weight of evaluating yourself by yourself like it would be sort of relaxing for not so that somebody else could worry about your inefficiencies and pay your ...
 Yeah just like you had a father image like it would help you become the kind of man you want to become.
 You're feeling like you're not. [60:43]
 Yeah right. You know when you said that you know like anything. I would have any questions about sort of went out of my mind because it was like right on the spot there. (laughter)
 Yeah right.
 Does it feel - coming to a screeching Holt - does it feel abrupt to you?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah like you're kind of being cut out on your own in some sense.
 And you haven't fully taken that in now and yet like there's something kind of cold and unfeeling about just being left there to sink or swim. 
 Sure.
 Yeah right.
 I hope it goes well for you. Really.
 Yeah
 Yeah. Bye-Bye Stanley (ph).
 0729-107 0729-107 Interview number three. Track 2. 1970. Okay.
 Come on in.
 Telephone problems or something.
 Fine. 
 That sounds like a big sigh.
 It sounds like it's hot right now.
 What happened? Did they both come at you and say that [this one about that now] (ph)?
 It was?
 Must have been almost frightening like people that aren't people or something.
 Like you were thinking about being left alone and.
 That's still kind of weighing on you. The feeling left over from last time?
 Okay.
 Right. [6:15]
 Where life goes? (laughs)
 Where we end up. That's an innocence thing.
 (inaudible at 8:01) unreal.
 And then you wonder about the other advice? [8:54]
 And that's the way this is going?
 Right.
 You're like being caught in having to run? And you'll run again.
 Like whenever people can't assert that? [11:43]
 Is that the kind of situation we're in right now?
 You're like well what will I do with these two?
 That you get the feeling that somehow it will end up in the same kind of bind.
 And that makes you feel awfully heavy about - of one fact that you can't go in kind of openly while making this decision.
 You know possible solutions.
 That maybe ought to work.
 But you would like to know what I think.
 I'm not sure what is (inaudible at 16:46) of not having to finish going back to those two and try to see deal with them or what.
 You could cope? [17:27]
 What I keep hearing you say who's to say that almost. So let's give off this flat somewhere and like you really want that.
 But what you're left with them right now is turning into a scary feeling. What do I do with all this stuff because it's scary?
 Not necessarily.
 But is it guilt when you say you're so concerned about other people? 
 Like somehow this is something that I don't approve of but don't want to be doing according to my laws.
 It sounds like you're feeling it right now or something like that. It makes you think going into the situations and like that. 
 Like it's a (inaudible at 20:19) 
 And scared. [20:21]
 So it's all happening to you in some way.
 Like feeling very scared inside you as well.
 Well I can get kind of overwhelmed with these feelings.
 What will I do? Where do I stand?
 It would seem like something you don't understand then you'd be scared to death. 
 So you suddenly feel like I have to help him through this somehow.
 So like it suddenly (inaudible at 26:51) like it's pounded to death. And it does feel like it's just coming at you faster than you can deal with it suddenly.
 And you'd like to be able to turn off for a little while. Curl up somewhere.
 Don't really feel like it but just turn off and stay off for a while.
 (laughs) (inaudible at 28:53)
 The right plug. (laughs)
 Because I'm here like - I was going to say I'm here and I'm dealing with them. I'm not just desperately having the one thing that I can plug in that'll I guess just take it away.
 Wipe it out.
 And that makes you feel good.
 Solid.
 Yeah.
 Makes you feel very vulnerable.
 So you feel something like I'm going to do.
 And like the questioning [on the other side of this] (ph). Yeah I don't know if what I'm saying helps. And I'm scared to death. And I don't know if you could do anything with that. 
 That's the way it feels.
 And it's like saying that life is running away from you somehow. I mean it's like being on top of (inaudible at 33:06) 
 And it looks like they're saying to you that you're not essential in the working out in some ways.
 Yeah.
 That makes you feel very old?
 Or something put on you? I'm sorry.
 Yeah almost like in a way I have to spread myself all out and let you're - let me pull it out of you.
 And it felt terribly lonely sitting on - there.
 When is that moment?
 Did you stop talking at all?
 Just stay uninvolved.
 So you don't kind of say something where it kind of conflicts with their values so you won't.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 So they're really trying to express caring here for?
 Right.
 But what you hear when they kind of - well maybe that's what your hang up from what you hear is well don't be you.
 And stop putting yourself out there.
 That would sent away saying well then nobody's uncomfortable - he and everybody else. And that would feel easier. 
 So you're not sure you - that's the way he feels.
 You have a heck of a deal with this sort of thing.
 Blending in.
 Where you're every which way on this. It's sort of like you're saying but I feel uncomfortable about that somehow. 
 Get to feel like you're not right now? Being accepted?
 So it's not - you don't know because you can't get an essential feeling. [47:00]
 Because they might suddenly swing out.
 So then you must feel very alone without that right now. And you feel well I haven't been getting any sense of her and like that's not good enough.
 Right.
 Like the situation that it looks like no. 
 And that's (inaudible at 48:37)
 Yeah.
 Right.
 It feels like okay I put myself out there and then I'm getting clobbered. 
 And I know that. [49:33]
 So you feel - you're feeling like I can't never get past number one.
 And you're smiling in theory that's going to become comfortable.
 She's the only one that you really feel safe with. [52:21]
 And I get that that's very hard to say ... that I really do want help. And you want to feel free to just be able to put it out there. 
 Right.
 It's just saying I'm alright.
 Yeah this is like that though. 
 The 27th. Yeah. And that's 4:00.
 Oh look they got me a new recorder because I have see if it has it's problems too. I don't know which way to look.
 Thank you.
 See you.
 Hanging on to her, you mean?
 It's almost like that was just kind of in the air all the time you were living there and you couldn't get your way out of it to be able to see it.
 Right, and you're still kind of close to it and so it feels even worse.
 Oh. You'd like him to pay more attention to you.
 There's something in that, like you just ... you're kind of watching ... watching to see ... it's not quite like you can do something about it, it's like you're watching to see where he puts his attention more.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Yeah, even though it was so silly ...
 He's going make that kind of play for you, that's just nowhere.
 Yeah. Like you were just (inaudible). 
 It's like it's really funny you don't play into this game anymore. 
 He's still trying it and you know it's a game and you're laughing at it.
 Yeah. I must have done something wrong and therefore you were wrong.
 Just that you could say it to her.
 It's like when you were with people, there was only this artificial kind of mask and the real you wasn't quite ready to become you. And now it's different. Now, that mask is kind of not so stiff.
 Like you can really breathe.
 Yeah, that's what I would say, you just needed some time and space to get yourself together.
 So you can have time to see it and kind of collect yourself.
 Now you mostly believe you're all right and you don't have to get set off by all those people, but it still helps to get compliments.
 That could be me! (laughs)
 (inaudible)
 It's like now you have a lot more self-respect, like you think you're worth more than that. [0:28:07.0]
 You really make a connection with them. 
 You really found out, you were really closed off, hard, and you couldn't get close to anybody.
 It's like you had to do that because that happened to you so many times. 
 Yeah. I guess it's like it's really amazing to see where you've come from.
 Yeah, it's like her own hang-ups kind of spread out into other people and that's the worst part of that.
 Yeah, it's like basically she didn't give ANYTHING to you.
 Not only that, but when you get there, you have to put up with her competing with her husband and with you and just a bad deal all around.
 It's really like all these ways she's being mean to you. I mean all these subtle and un-subtle ways, and not only that but you lived with her all that time and suffered from it and didn't see it.
 It's kind of like you're angry at yourself too.
 Like, why did I put up with that? [0:40:15.0]
 You're really hurting her by letting her do that stuff to you.
 But it sounds like he's hurting her too, I mean he's playing into it the same way you did and everybody ... at least those two were kind of keeping each other in the same boat, hurting each other. [0:42:05.3]
 But it sounds like you kind of want to take his side and part of it is because you see you in her, or something like that.
 So it's like that whole world is just filled with petty kind of things that you don't want to have anything to do with.
 But still, you couldn't see that it was ... you had done something really good. It was just that you had lost out. That was the (inaudible) thing.
 So all of that old stuff just seems like so silly and so trivial and useless and why did you do that for so long?
 So it's those times when you feel like there really is something you could do but ...
 You feel kind of helpless.
 It sounds like you were afraid that you wouldn't be able to get it across. 
 And so that he'll ... so that he won't think it was the wrong thing or ...
 So it was almost like you were getting caught thinking those things and ...
 and there was the possibility that you would have to tell him. 
 So THAT'S why you didn't want to go talk to him.
 Because then you might have to be honest and tell him the real reasons why you were quitting.
 So then it was that Jodie kind of made you feel like you HAD to go see him when you really didn't want to, you really didn't want to ...
 That made it like you HAD to go and be nice to him. 
 She told you about ... you'd really be doing a socially bad thing if you don't go tell him.
 It's almost like they trap you into or set you into being, send you into being the old way.
 Dragging your past in front of you. [0:58:09.7]
 And having your own friends.
 Yeah, it's like a sharing, but it sure is a put down at the same time. 1:00:00.7
 You WERE inferior somehow. I mean, I don't mean that in the same sense but the situation was [set up so that] (ph) you would HAVE to be that way.
 We have to stop.
 But what I want to say about what you were saying before was that it seems like you're able to see now that the way you live and the situations that kind of reinforce whatever feeling you're having then, like you were saying that about your sister and you were saying that about the situation with Jodie and the way it was and kind of seeing, that's kind of how you set it up, so that you ... do you see what I mean? That you keep hanging on ... it's almost like it was in the situation, you felt inferior, but you were also living in this place where you couldn't HELP but feel inferior, because you didn't have your own friends. 
 Still warm?
 I heard a little more than 40. 
 Want a cracker? 
 Do you with peanut butter or a salty cheese cracker. 
 So like you have at least agreed that there is something wrong.
 That is like a very important reference point or something. 
 What sort of comes to my mind, that in all these situations, she is something that is really real in your life? I mean that is sort of the same thing as maybe a reference point but she like always comes out clear. You know who she is. You know what she means to you. You know you have a relationship with her and that you do not doubt. [0:07:57.9] 
 I see. I see. 
 A feeling of being with is stronger than who it is or something. 
 I cannot tell from how it sounds like there is still a realization that you are reporting. I cannot tell whether it bothers you or
 Yeah. Josh or anybody else.
 This has gone on for what two weeks a week? [0:12:01.3] 
 Almost restorative.
 No. We were thinking about it but we did not.
 Was it fun?
 I guess what comes to my mind is they did not make you feel that you were so far away from them or something. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 You mean that is how he will interpret it?
 But still it sounds like it makes it very hard to get through to him in some ways. Like he could be actively endangering himself. [0:25:05.4]
 It sounds like he makes you feel like an intruder like you are putting a heavy judgment on him or something like that if you try to make what really feels like just a suggestion. 
 But is also seems like it would be like you are saying at this [0:26:59.4] point, we cannot work anything out either. We have to let it drop and evaporate. There is no way to get clear about it or something like that.
 Yes. It looks like you are saying beautiful turn of grace no what the hell does that mean? 
 What?
 Do you have a trick shoulder? [0:27:58.4]
 Oh yes. I remember.
 Oh.
 Well that hurts me just to talk about it. I do not know why. I have never had any dislocated anythings but I have seen a lot of kids on the sports fields that have them and it looks like some of the world's most intense pain. 
 You mean as you look back on it, it is not that clearly measured or 
 Like it does things.
 What about the next six months of that. Is that some sort of stretch ahead for you
 Yeah. Like expecting something. 
 It was like it was pleasant but it did not get you anywhere really. 
 The fact that it really does matter whether someone laughs or whether you are able to do something for someone. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Sounds delightful.
 So are you saying something like at a time like that things get out of proportion and you tend to, like what you were talking about before, you tend to worry about whether or not you should be a certain way. You are not upset about it. You realize I am just that way and maybe I might be things that could be better but this is how I am. [0:42:56.2]
 So like there is still, like you just cannot write it off and say oh she was in a bad mood. 
 That she did not mean it. You are saying that I am assuming that on some level in some way that she did and those are things that I really need to deal with. [0:43:59.5]
 Ok. So like when you are dealing with a problem, there is a process that goes on. You work it out. And you are saying you might just remember that it is ok to maybe to forget about the content of that particular problem but the process really has some merit to it. 
 And you ought not to just shove it away out of your life because you will need it again. [0:45:58.8]
 I see. It is like you are saying ok the problem of conflict part of it might get worked out but what we really need to do is then work on understanding it. [0:47:02.1]
 Why did it happen? How was it that we were not talking to each other or listening to each other whatever your particular thing is and it makes it very uncomfortable for her to say, "Oh, that is over with; we do not have to look at it anymore." 
 I will tell you something. I have not really read up on that in a long time. I do not know. It sounds like almost to me I had sort of my own version of it and it sounds like I do not know. I am sort of unwilling to attach those kinds of names to things. But it sounds like if you doubt who you are and you doubt what is around you also it must have something to do with identity, but I do not know if that helps. It sounds like it would mean something to you that I get you know. I do not mean that you just want a label for it. That you would like in some way define what has been happening to you. 
 Are you asking me what it is that is happening to you? [0:50:55.5]
 A what?
 I am not really sure where you are on that. It seems to me like the feeling I got was that you were just like oh well I will just drop it or something. I am still not sure what the question was.
 I am sort of far away from that in my writing. Like academic reading like that. 
 Yeah. That is right. There could be psychologists that are not psychotherapists. It happens that I am a clinical psychologist or will be a certified one soon and also a psychotherapist. There are other kinds of psychologists. Bio psychologists, personality psychologists that construct tests, cognitive psychologists.
Psychoanalysis is like it is one way of doing therapy and some psychologists [0:55:03.2] are analytically oriented; psychoanalytically oriented. Some psychiatrists are psychoanalytically oriented. That is like a particular, those people ascribe to a particular theory that is Freud's view of psychotherapy. 
 And they are particular. You have to really be a quote "official one" you go to school or get training that is even more intensive than being a psychiatrist. No what else was there?
 Yeah. That is right. [0:56:00.5]
 Yeah. I think there is something very self conscious about that kind of thing. You know, for me, I think it is also kind of important to have had the experience of going through therapy. Like you know what it is like to deal with your own problems in this way and to get a better knowledge of yourself. So I can see it both ways if I really I feel it is important but I do not necessarily place a premium on revealing all the awful things about yourself. They just do it different. I would imagine, I would guess, I do not know if this is a fact that most people who do psychotherapy have been in therapy also. I just sort of assumed that. I am not quite so studied about these things. [0:57:08.8] 
 I guess we are done with it. [0:57:31.2]
 So, how're you doin?
 So, what's new?
 It's not working, or you having problems with it?
 Oh, no.  What are you noticing?
 Oh, no.  Oh, no.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 But after the Effexor was gone.
 Like, is it depression you mean?
 That's terrible.  You see, if anything like that ever happens, you need to just call me before the appointment.  You don't have to be miserable, okay?  'Cause if it's not working or causing side effects, I wanna get you off of it, so, yeah, we'll definitely get you off of it.  So, yknow, we'll definitely get you off of it.  So, you've been depressed, you have nightmares, you're not sleeping.  Are you having trouble getting to sleep?  Are you waking up during the night?
 Waking up like once an hour.
 And you can't get to sleep some nights.
 Okay.  That sounds terrible.  I would say just stop it.  You don't have to taper off it.  Just stop it.  It'll, it'll tape itself out of your system, but we'll drop it right away.
 It's possible.
 Prozac isn't the right one, it sounds like.
 Okay.  Uh, let me ask you some other questions.  How's your energy during the day?  Do you feel tired or you have an okay energy level?
 Okay.
 Because you feel tired?  Okay.  How's your appetite been?
 Really?  That's unusual, okay.  Are you hungry or eating more?
 Okay.  So, is it, um, you have low motivation?  Like you just don't wanna do anything?
 Okay.  What about concentration?  Are you able to focus okay, or is it difficult?
 Okay, it varies.  Are you getting much enjoyment out of things?  Or you just kind of go through the motions?  Have you been having any suicidal thoughts?
 Okay.  Um, what about, uh, last time we talked, I think you were going to see your gynecologist.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Now how are you doin' on the [INAUDIBLE]?  Has it just been like a couple, 2, 3 weeks or something?
 Okay, so about a month.  Do, have you noticed any difference with that?  Or has it been hard to tell?
 Yeah.  Okay.  Um, okay.
 That's a good thing.  Okay.  What about stresses in your life?  Any new stresses?
 Okay, when?
 Oh, I was gonna say you know this lady, you don't even know this lady.
 Uh-huh.
 Hm.  Do they like her?
 She doesn't like the woman, or -
 Ah, is this woman his age?
 Okay, yeah.  So, it's not their age so much, it's just that - 
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.  So, it's putting a lot of stress on the family.  Okay.  All right.  That's enough.  Any other stresses?  Work goin' okay?
 Okay.  Social life okay? Not so good?  What's happen' there?
 Oh, okay.
 So, have you just not been seeing him much then?  Okay.  Okay.  Hm.  And are you still seeing [NAME OTHER]?
 Okay.  How often are you seein' her now?
 Okay.  Is that goin' okay?
 So, okay.  Anything else goin' on now?  Any other problems or stresses?  Okay, yeah, it's just you've been feelin' awful.  You're not sleepin' well.  Um, I guess what I'm thinking about is what you said, the Effexor may be doing more than we thought and do we go back to that, or do we try something completely different?  Because we have a lot of other choices.
 No, no, we'll get you off that.  Let me read back through my notes to see when you were on the Effexor.  Let's see, well I have down then you were having trouble staying asleep then, you were tired, you were, how much do you weigh now?
 Yeah, you were [INAUDIBLE] last time.  I'll write that down so we can keep track.  Okay.  That's weird because if anything, Prozac usually causes weight loss but you're just having a bad reaction to it, it sounds like.  Um, let's see -
 Wow.
 I understand.  Well, so we wanna stay away from medicines that'll cause weight gain.  We wanna stick with something that's weight neutral.  Unfortunate, the antidepressants, there'll only a couple that can sometimes cause people to lose weight.  One's the Wellbutrin.
 Which you're already on.  And then, the Prozac sometimes does.  There are a couple of those in the Prozac family that are different than Prozac.  Sometimes it'll help, we like Lexapro.  Have you ever heard of Lexapro?
 I only wanted to raise it to
 So, I don't quite catch you, were you okay on the 450 Wellbutrin and the 10 of Lexapro?
 Okay.  Because we can't go above 450 on Wellbutrin, you can have seizures, but we can go higher on the Lexapro.
 If 10 isn't enough.  Do you want to go back and try Lexapro again?
 That worked the best of anything you tried so far, do you think?
 Oh, so let's go back to it 'cause that's a real good combination.
 Yes.
 Right.  It's called escitalopram.
 It's related to Lexapro.  It's not the same, but it's related.  Some people try it and think it works as well, some people say it doesn't work as well.  It is cheaper.  So, if cost is an issue, you wanna try it, we can.  If you don't wanna take the chance, we can go with the Lexapro.
 Okay.  That sounds fine.  Um, and yknow what we can do, let me give you some samples to get you started on it to make sure it's working okay before you go out and pay for a prescription okay?
 Good, that's good.  Here's 2 weeks worth of Lexapro, 10 mg, so you can just start back on those.  You can start them today if you want, if you want to wait until tomorrow you can.
 Like I said, the Prozac's gonna be gradually leaving your system, um, and it usually takes about 3 to 7 days for the Lexapro to kick in again.  Um, so, if it was me, I'd pry start on it today just to get it in my system.
 When you were taking that combination, did you feel pretty good most of the time with the Lexapro and the Wellbutrin?
 Okay.  That's probably the best direction to head in and again, we had reviewed just Lexapro's dose.  The maximum dose of Lexapro is 20 mg a day, but it's such a safe medicine, even if that isn't working, we can go a little higher.  But, with the Wellbutrin, we don't wanna go any higher than 450.  That's dangerous if we do, so.  Uh, and the good thing about the Lexapro, it can kind of help us on the premenstrual irritability, too.  Okay, any question about the Lexapro?  Did you have any side effects with it before that you remember?
 Okay, good.  I wouldn't expect you to this time either.  It's one of the most well-tolerated medicines, anti depressants, out there.  Let me get your prescription, too, assuming that that's gonna work.
 Uh-huh.
 Either way's fine.  Do you have a preference?
 Oh, okay.  We might just wait a month.  You don't have to carry this around for a month.  And if you ever need it before an appointment, just call me or call the pharmacy and I can always okay it.
 Whenever you need it.  I just don't want you running out.  Let's see, [PATIENT NAME], which pharmacy do you use?
 Hallers and [INAUDILE] okay.  I'm not sure where that 1 is.  I didn't even know there was 1 out there.
 Okay.
 Oh, is it?  Which 1 is that?
 Oh, uh-huh.  Okay, now the Lexapro you can take morning, noon or night.  It doesn't really matter.  Most people take it in the morning because sometimes it can give you a little boost in your energy and may make it a little bit harder to sleep at night.  If you take it and feel a little bit tired, you can switch and take it at nighttime.  It doesn't matter in terms of its effectiveness, okay? 
 Do you remember when you took it before?
 That's when most people do.  I'm gonna write for 30 with 5 refills on there.  So, again, you can go ahead and start the samples and make sure that it's working for the first 2 weeks and if all's going smoothly then there's a prescription for 30 more with 5 refills.
 Yeah, we'll get you the Wellbutrin next time so you don't run out of that.
 And like I said, if you're for some reason running low, just call me.  And the Xanax, you're doing okay with it, too?
 Forty 5, right.
 Good, okay.
 'Cause yeah, there should be a couple refills on that one 'cause I called it in like, or I gave you the prescription last month for 3 months' worth with 2 refills.
 Okay.  And that's keeping your anxiety level under a reasonable control?
 Okay.  And you're not having any problems in terms of it causing you to be tired that you can tell, after you take it?
 Okay.  Well, during the day, I guess at night, it helps with, well in theory, it should help you get to sleep, but it hasn't been.
 Okay, so you missed it.
 Okay, any other problems, [PATIENT NAME] you can think of?  Any other concerns or, okay.  So again, it's gonna take a little while for the Prozac to get out of your system, so hang in there.  Well, what can you do in the meantime?  Hopefully the Lexapro will start kickin' in.  Take the Wellbutrin.  If you have any problems, will you call me?
 I don't want things to get any worse.  I want them to start getting better, okay?
 Let's check back in a month to make sure this is working, okay?
 And then we can adjust the Lexapro if we need to.  Okay.  Let's see.  And what I'll do is I'll call [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], oh, you're seeing her tonight you said.
 I might just leave her a message letting her know we're switching medicines, too, so she's aware of that.  Let's see a month of now, is gonna be around the 10th of October, that week, um, mornings are best for you?  Or afternoons?
 Okay, let's see, Monday, the 8th is Columbus Day, does that matter to you?  Is that a good day or a bad day or?
 So, I've got like 1:00 or 1:30 that day if that works.
 Okay.  Eigth.  Would you like a card also?
 Okay.  All right, so you're gonna call if you have any problems, right?
 Okay, good.  I just don't want things to get any worse.  I just wanna get goin' in the right direction.  Okay.  All right.  Well, have a good week.
 We'll get you feelin' better, all right?
 See ya later.
 Um-hum, bye bye.
 I did - I've sort of was. I just wanted to confirm with you.
 Yeah. No. I didn't.
 I remember that.
 What were you thinking about then?
 No. What were you thinking about it?
 Yeah. Did it make you feel attacked or ... defensive?
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh. And - but what did you think that was about? Even that you're probably thinking about it until now a week later.
 Oh course. 
 No. That's not what I meant.
 Yeah. So ... you feel like you did - you didn't want to be doing that and if I'm - I feel that you did that you wouldwant to know why. Do you remember what was said that I - I said to you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. It was like you want things to be different and we had also been discussing you want some results now and you were also talking about you want something new. I remember like we were discussing how many over and over and over again and you were kind of like okay this is enough. Let's do something new. And it kind of opened up some - some areas of - of what - of what that means to get away from something.
 Um, let's see what I wrote. I guess thinks about therapy and what I'm remembering from the last time was this hopelessness that you can't figure yourself out. You want to be figured out. You want to be helped. Can I figure it am I good enough, smart enough? Is this going to work? All the different levels of that ... kind of hopelessness. We related it to one of your presenting problems ... was kind of feeling depressed. You know like a victim. 
 I'm going to - I'm going to say like you can't be helped. 
 And I've kind of given up. You know if you don't - if it doesn't happen or you know. Do you know what I mean?
 What's going on for you right now?
 What's - but what are you ... can you - can you try to just even this -?
 So -
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 It's boring. And is boring bad or good?
 Boring is bad.
 And new is good or bad?
 Yeah. Going -
 Yes. So that's what you feel that's what you want to be happening?
 New -
 Yeah. Yeah. Accomplishing something. Right. And how do you know if that's happening or not?
 Okay. And has that happened before - before for you?
 Okay. Here.
 Right.
 Unkind remarks?
 Yes.
 Right. You don't want to waste your time. You want to use the time -
 Exactly.
 You also said it's very hard going back to your childhood - hard to relax. It's hard to -
 Not be doing something productive and -
 Using your time.
 Wisely. And in a way that was kind of connecting what was going on here to out there.
 Because you feel that. I'm guessing that or is it (inaudible) kind of a pressure to go and do and be productive. [0:06:02.3]
 Right. It's time limited.
 So we - so what - is that more pressure?
 Yes.
 What - this - this feels very important?
 Um-hum.
 What - when you - when you say you accomplish something, can we begin to kind of get out what that is or get what that means?
 It feels important to you and I want to go - 
 Okay.
 I was talking about accomplishments in here because you want to come in and accomplish something in here and not - it's disappointing and frustrating and -
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So there's like a learning - you think you're supposed to be learning something in here. How come you think that? Could I - did I tell you that?
 Okay.
 Right.
 Right. But do you remember the line where it - it's not intellectual. You can't -
 Yeah. So we could then even stop right now and say this is going to be hard.
 And when you say that's hard for you. Yeah. Okay. And it's -
 Yeah.
 Now when something's hard for you like this or other things, what - what goes on for you when it's hard and you don't get it and ... there's almost like nothing for you to kind of grasp unto and like you know that's hard?
 Of course.
 No. I'm - I didn't know that because of why - what the connection was to. I'm asking what's hard and then you're talking about the (inaudible). [0:09:00.0]
 Okay.
 When something's hard -
 Yeah.
 It's kind of -
 Yeah.
 Okay. So some negative consequence - I mean when something is hard and you're not getting it or it's just hard and you're struggling with it. So then we sort of know that it's going to go on in here then. 
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah. Which is -
 So would you say it's harder?
 In a different way.
 So that begins this theme of like new -we - new territory 
 New material. New is - is good. What - if I'm hearing you correctly and it means accomplishment. And accomplishment is good. And it does seem like it's ... it has an effect in here, right? Because if we have to be afraid of boring or we have to be afraid of the tread mill or be afraid of going over and over and over some place and it doesn't seem like we're going anywhere ... even though we might. And even though it might not be immediately apparent ... puts us in a tough position maybe. Maybe. I don't know. Yeah but -
 What do you mean?
 Yeah.
 What is it - what - what do you mean? Does that - how does that -?
 Uh-hum.
 You'd like me to be more assertive?
 Right.
 So I'm not making any promises.
 Right. 
 I would disagree with that. [0:11:54.6]
 No. I don't know if I - I say when you say you come in here to put your opinions aside I would say come in here to really learn more about your opinions maybe and learn really things you - you're not even aware of underlying your conscious.
 And being able to communicate in a way that you might not be comfortable communicating.
 Yeah. 
 And feeling like we didn't get anywhere.
 There's patterns of communicating relating that we're going to discuss things in your life obviously but there are patterns in here that we can be aware we'll relate.
 Yeah. The -
 Right.
 Yeah.
 So - so does that - so - are you - go ahead. I'm sorry.
 Why is that not so (inaudible)?
 Really.
 If I say I want to help us increase our awareness of what's going on - I am - I am -
 It's very uncomfortable.
 Why - why - I'm almost feeling like you're suggesting that your feelings or the things that are not - you're not aware of or just awareness or consciousness in general is not concrete enough.
 I mean like content - like -
 Yeah.
 Right. Which was what -?
 Yeah. Okay. Well I'm - I'm wondering how then do we understand eight sessions of going no where. Of letting you flow with your events in your life.
 Right. Here - the weekly stresses - whatever is going on, things that were important to you -
 That you wanted advise or counsel on or a way of understanding.
 Yeah. But it doesn't seem like that - that worked.
 For you.
 Right. But we're here for you.
 Yeah. But I mean my - my success is whether you benefit at all. [0:14:55.5]
 We were doing what I wanted to do.
 Okay.
 Can you say more? What - it - so this is uneasy? Like so we've had two sessions - this is our third sense that you know?
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yes. To some degree. I don't know if I - I'm with that description but we have the same description sometimes. I assume. And?
 So we did this for eight sessions - something and ... we didn't have any benefit from - the medicine didn't have any - it didn't work, right? And I want to leave. Forget it. So we're - we kind of salvaged something. We tried to communicate and say alright we're going to try something different and we've had two sessions like that or - one since we ... got back together and I'm sensing that you're - you're very frustrated. 
 Yeah.
 So I'm feeling then that's enormous pressure but the ball is in -
 Yeah but the ball is in - but the ball is in my court.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 What if this (inaudible) had this kind of like report right now? Is this okay because this seems like -?
 Awful lonely. Right. 
 You know the moment. I guess what I'm - what - what I'm interested in or curious about in what seems very solid for you is that new equals good, accomplishing something that's concrete equals good and being able to see progress in it - in measurable or tangible or way that whether you're just - can walk out of here and feel like ah-ha, wow I learned something and I completely appreciate that. It's important to you. And not getting those things is disappointing and I don't know. Could - could be - [0:18:09.4]
 Could you -?
 What's that?
 Yeah.
 Right. Do you -
 Do you feel that relates to things going on in your life? I feel like you've said essentially that in many different ways.
 You feel - frustrated that you're not making progress in different areas and it's caused you distress and depression and some anxiety. 
 It is.
 Okay.
 Okay. So -
 Yes. Okay. So let's -
 Right. So let's - let's get then to your issues and to problems that you wrote, that you discussed that are important to you I'm assuming. These feelings right? Not necessarily the progress but also you wrote about feelings of anxiety or depression of feeling like a victim of feeling them. Negative feelings, right? You feeling them in here when we're not accomplishing something and you feel them out there when you're not accomplishing -
 What's going on?
 The only connection I'm seeing is the fact that you want to accomplish something out there and you're upset that you're not.
 And you want to accomplish something in here and you're upset that you're not.
 So -
 So I'm - correct me if I'm wrong but I'm missing something but it seems pretty related but I respect if you don't think so.
 You didn't accomplish something.
 That's a - that's a quote from in here about this therapy. Something you want to accomplish something. [0:20:57.3]
 Talk me what's going on. Do you -?
 It's more - okay. What's - what's the tread mill? Can you - I'm not quite sure I understand that metaphor?
 How many times have we said it?
 Okay. Could you - could you tell me what it feels like to not accomplish something?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. It's like -
 Yeah. I think you're right. I think I feel like I want you to get - understand some point that I made the point and you - you kind of disagree with it. Yeah. Maybe you're right. I feel like I want to keep pushing some - some message or point that you're not - that I think you're not getting.
 Yes.
 Yeah. What would that mean?
 Yeah.
 I could say what I think it means but - but go ahead.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 He was pleased that you got it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. He made you feel good.
 So you felt that -
 Okay. Alright. You know and I think - I think I'm hearing you. I think I wasn't hearing you. Okay. 
 What were you doing there? Where do you want to go?
 The ball is in my court but let's not go here. Let's not stay on that tread mill. Ball is in your court but we can't play basket -
 Okay. So I mean I feel like I'm sort of caught because if this is our work ... to know what's going on here and make relationships to other things going on in your life and other ways - 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I just get the sense that dealing with the reality wasn't that helpful for you.
 How come?
 We can't - we can't - we can't.
 Right? I'm just I'm wondering that when you - when you say well - my frustration in here, my frustration with you Jonathan, my frustration with this person. 
 It's nothing like my frustration out there and they're different and my dissatisfaction - whatever you're feeling in here is not like the feeling out there. When it looks to me there's - there is something but I have to respect that you're saying that it's not. 
 So I'm wondering if part of your ... issues that you want to talk about have to do with this (inaudible) desire that -
 To accomplish something - fix - like do something - go, go, go. Not waste time. Like if hypothetically for example wasting time and seeing what happens when we do that. Seeing how you feel. Seeing what comes up when we're wasting time. Doing nothing. [0:26:40.4]
 Over idealism. So it's not just idealism. What - can you - what - what do you mean? About what you -?
 About what you can do? Like to contribute and be - do meaningful work?
 You seem - you seem sad right now to me (inaudible).
 Right. And that might not happen?
 That's how I imagine (inaudible).
 You don't want to feel that.
 It sounds like it's not - it's not enough. It's not what you really want.
 Yeah.
 But it's also disappointing.
 You're afraid to leave. Yeah. And you don't want to feel that.
 What would happen if you let yourself feel it?
 Yeah.
 What happens when you feel that?
 The learning.
 Do you do that privately?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 You can push yourself and you can accomplish.
 Right.
 Right. Important to be accomplishing something ... even if it's just personally. It's meaningful. I'm just thinking about other things you said about the one thing in some respect from other people. That it's not always enough. For respect from other people and having ... 
 Some power. Acknowledgement of what you can do with your - how smart you are.
 And you were noticing it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. That was available.
 You should have known that.
 Yeah.
 You - you already spoke to him about this and he didn't -
 He didn't take any of it in.
 Yeah. Tell that to the class. What -?
 I'm curious what - what that felt like though. Like first when you told him the first night and he came up with some obscurity.
 Okay. And then the next day when he didn't change his tune at all and then ended up -
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 (Inaudible) to them.
 Right. It's not fair.
 Why is that funny?
 Well that's a theme isn't it? That you feel like a victim or this feels like an unfair -
 Yeah. But it's not real -
 Not real comfortable.
 Right but not. What would be pretty uncomforting? Not just the intellectual comfort. 
 Yeah.
 Right.
 What's going on? You're (inaudible).
 Yeah. They're passed over.
 And not just your world.
 That's usually successful. [0:35:54.8]
 But that's what you felt like.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah. But why (inaudible) or wondering if you were really are or not and using this kind of - the (inaudible) of whether someone's going to offer you a position or not. It causes you - it sounds like it causes you distress and suffering. 
 Right.
 Yeah. And it sounds like it's hard to get pass that.
 I think it's that ... doesn't seem to (inaudible).
 Really.
 What if it's really not - it doesn't exist?
 Yeah. Or not. It could be a reason to rejoice.
 That kind of realization. That doesn't exist. That what you want - what you are - what do you think it would be like might not exist. And you're wanting it, it's the suffering.
 Well just like you said what if it doesn't - what if it's really not out there?
 Yeah.
 Maybe.
 Yeah.
 Maybe.
 Yeah. You can't do that.
 Oh course. The -
 Giving up hope.
 That you will have to (inaudible) that hope can cause us a lot of pain.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And you felt -
 Right.
 Yeah. [0:40:13.0]
 How you treat people - the goals not important.
 Yep.
 Right. But it's not always people don't always treat you with respect or with honesty. It's (inaudible) - you know what to reference.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 You don't get that? You don't get that.
 Often. And you can't do anything about that.
 It's worse even in that situation.
 Because they - they know you. I mean common courtesy and doesn't happen.
 Very -
 That's - 
 Well what happens when that happens? How do you feel when it happens?
 Yeah. And there's nothing you can do about it. That's the victim I guess that becomes (inaudible).
 Power -
 Yeah. You don't even get called then.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You don't want anyone to feel your feelings.
 You're hoping things will be different.
 We have about seven minutes left. 
 Right. [0:43:06.3]
 Yeah.
 So you realized what - did you go back and read your e-mail?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right. But it sounds like you wanted her just to respect you and to say listen I want to hire you or not because -
 Yeah.
 That bothered you.
 What if you didn't offend her though?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You're thinking about it. You thought about it.
 Right.
 Yeah. It happened in here.
 Yeah. And it changes - it affects your behavior. It affects what you do and what you choose to say.
 And this feelings underneath though too.
 Yeah. You don't want to hurt somebody.
 Yeah. I have I done anything today that -? [0:45:43.7]
 Okay. Yeah. And do you think you'd be able to tell me if I criticized you in a way that -?
 I'm just saying you know just -
 Keep on top of it. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right. But I think to do that ... and just going to have to guess is we're going to have to find out what the feelings are too underneath the thin skin.
 Right.
 It's not a mystery why you have a thin skin.
 What are the emotions?
 Okay. That doesn't really explain why you're so affected. Why your skin is so thin or you feel deeply or you're hurt?
 Yes. It would just go to the opposite.
 Yeah.
 Or it stops you.
 Well even the 19 and a half story where you - this respected teacher and you're coming in and he's making mistakes.
 Really.
 When you're right yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yes. It's gratifying. Oh course.
 And I would not dispute that.
 Who's winning here?
 Can you say more?
 Can you say more about it?
 I'd like to go back to that for a second but go ahead.
 You'd be good at that.
 Yes.
 Build (inaudible) be nice, right?
 Yeah.
 But it comes back and it sounds like it bites you.
 Well you don't get the respect you want and the power you want and the positions you want. 
 Well you have a thin skin so obviously you know if you know you have a thin skin people criticize you and it felt bad. I'm making an assumption here I guess. [0:48:58.2]
 Right.
 Yeah. I get (inaudible). Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Maybe - I'm wondering. We have to stop now but I'm wondering how that conversation could have gone because I feel like we've sort of tried to think well how could things be different and we're arguing or we're ... it's - it's hard. It's hard to have that conversation sometimes. 
 How things are different because they can be - you're doing something wrong. I'm doing something wrong. It's again (inaudible).
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you?
 I mean is that what - is that - but and what happened?
 (Inaudible) it's like you're saying tell me what I'm doing wrong. Here's what you're doing wrong. That's unfair.
 You said it sounded like unfair criticism whatever she said.
 Yeah.
 So it's the way it's delivered?
 So it's not the content?
 They just say it differently.
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible) so you want them to be helping you. You want them to be looking out for you and helping you get better and grow and learn.
 Right.
 Yeah. [0:51:57.4]
 But do you see how that's - I mean - that's the (inaudible) because she's pointing out that (inaudible) with how defensive you are and then you feel criticized, defense kicks in and you feel hurt and you get defensive. It's like you're trapped.
 It's a pattern.
 And I think you're right. I think understanding why you have a thin skin and why it hurts so bad and why you want to defend yourself and that impulse. Maybe you're putting a little bit of space in there even if we could put a moment in there to start with between the reaction that we could begin to notice what's going on. That's - that could be one of the things we think about.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Okay. We have to stop for today.
 I - I didn't want to - I just want to touch - I don't know if we could really talk about it but when you said I'm kind of - I don't know. Did you say wiping the floor with you in here?
 Yeah. Because we were - I mean I would just like to kind of reframe it a little bit and say I think it's us working together.
 Yeah. Okay. (Inaudible) for last week also. Right?
 Research.
 That's fine.
 Okay. 
 How did it feel?
 (Inaudible). Working together?
 See you next week.
 Interview 4; interview 4.
 Yourself?
 Uh-huh. It's kind of like in the last week or so you've kind of felt yourself to be different then kind of hear you talking about.
 You could say it.
 Not just keep it inside.
 Yeah, I sense you're kind of confused about what's really me, what's real in me. Is the confusion real or is that something kind of I'm making up.
 Because I didn't feel that way.
 Do you mean like you kind of felt like you just were and you weren't trying to examine what's real and when you found when you could just do that it was okay?
 You just weren't standing watching yourself, you were just kind of living.
 It sounds like you're not too sure of that either, though.
 Yeah, I s-because I really sense kind out of all of this, you really did feel really unsure about what's really you and how you do live.
 Mm-hmm. You're there.
 Felt sharing.
 But it's kind of like you're not quite feeling all those questions right now.
 Kind of having more of a sense that you're living with air.
 You're not watching living.
 Yeah, but, I mean I guess that would mean then that you make yourself down or - 
 By kind of asking yourself questions and watching yourself. That confuses you, helps you feel down.
 Kind of what you had said was that it's when you feel, you kind of ask questions of yourself that makes you feel confused.
 Oh, I see.
 I see. So it's kind of like when you... when it's going... it's really when you're feeling up like now, it's like you don't, you don't really question or examine yourself; when you're feeling down, it's kind of you get into a very introspective self-examination thing and kind of makes you feel disoriented and very unsure of yourself, kind of very shaky, not sure what kind of ground you're standing on? [0:09:13.8]
 It's kind of like the depression colors the, the way you look at yourself, accentuates the bad.
 On (crosstalk) 
 Him doing things for you.
 Like he didn't show his affection.
 (Crosstalk)
 You didn't know he cared.
 I see. Kind of like it's, he's caring, but it's kind of like a, a routine. I mean it's his, but you're not kind of sure if it's really something special and - 
  - meaningful.
 I see.
 I see. Kind of like it's a something you should do, a routine, but it's kind of like something you see yourself in your father, like it just doesn't kind of flow naturally because it's something meaningful that you want to really - 
  - it just comes natural. [0:12:50.4]
 Comforting you.
 Yeah, it's like he was kind of there and handled, handled you and kind of his feelings for you not like what seemed like a human, warm, loving way, but more in kind of a rational, practical, pragmatic way.
 And do you kind of wonder like well maybe I'm kind of the way I am with my emotions because well that's kind of the way my father was and...
 And I always look to that way, rather than emotional, like my, my mother. [0:14:35.3]
 Well, let's see - 
  - kind of attitude (inaudible).
 Uh-huh, and kind of you say to yourself, "Well I can see how I came from what I am kind of came from them," but so what?
 That's nice to know or (crosstalk) needs to know. Is that what you kind of say?
 Change or something.
 Well it looks like it doesn't. [0:17:07.4]
 Yeah, getting back to kind of are these things only things that I feel when I'm down?
 Yeah, I really kind of sense it's like, I'm really kind of getting a picture like you feel almost like two different people sometimes. Like there's the you who feels down and questions yourself and really kind of you don't know, you may be imagining all sorts of kind of unsurenesses about yourself but then the you when you're feeling up, really feels kind of like you're on solid ground. You (inaudible at 0:18:42.8) do experience things and you can share, it's kind of like they're almost completely... one is kind of fuller and the other kind of looks at all the emptiness and says I don't have these things and the other one feels them. But you do have them and you don't even kind of ask yourself, you just know they're there or something. [0:19:05.1]
 To reacting to yourself, yeah.
 It looks like it confuses you.
 Yeah, but what do you, what do you, like when you were saying, kind of seeing people have different... that you can feel kind of the poles (ph), and what... how does that make you feel? Because you look confused, I...
 Yeah, but what you're - 
  - what you're really saying it's kind of like to s-when you see the self you are when you feel depressed like that really bothers you. [0:21:01.4]
 Yeah, it's kind of like well that's how people are, (inaudible) it doesn't bother you really.
 Yeah, you really kind of want to be able to say, well like when I feel down those are the kinds of things I see, I mean I, but I also want to be able to keep the, the knowledge that I, that's not the way I am, that's the way I feel I am when I'm this way and kind of integrate those two kinds of things and kind of be able to accept them both.
 And you don't know what that would be like. Is that what you mean? [0:23:21.6]
 Yeah, but you know what kind of, depression is kind of a spiraling thing. When you feel bad, you start to question all the things about yourself - 
  - which makes you feel worse.
 (Crosstalk)
 It sounds like you can say it but it sure doesn't... kind of like you can't feel it (background noise).
 Well, how are you feeling (inaudible at 0:25:00.0) you're feeling good now, how do you feel like when you look at yourself, how do you, what do you see? [0:25:06.8]
 Yeah, that' s a hard question.
 Unsureness.
 Yeah, kind of like, I sense what you're saying there that kind of common thing is well I have things I feel unsure about, now I know I can feel anxious, you feel anxious about coming here from what you're saying, you feel anxious about when you came up on, kind of like you can, they're not overwhelming, they don't cause you to get thrown.
 It's like well you know I feel anxious but I can give it a whirl. [0:27:50.9]
 Yeah, it's kind of like the movement is forward or something to kind of like the momentum.
 That's the way you feel and it's kind of like things can crop up, there are worries, there are anxieties, but you can feel like you can take them in stride and see what happens.
 Like okay if it doesn't work out, it's not the end of the world, it doesn't mean I'm a, incompetent off of - 
  - worthless.
 Kind of switching the direction of it.
 Right. Kind of now it's like it's a negative, but not a throwing negative, it's kind of something to get through and kind of learn from.
 What it, can you tell me what you did feel like Thursday, I mean what happened? I mean -  [0:30:37.7]
 Cohesive group. [0:31:24.0]
 (Inaudible at 0:32:11.0)
 Mm-hmm it's like, it's like you said, but boy they saw it, too.
 They saw you as a failure kind of.
 There was, yeah, it was you to them, each of them individually, but nothing between them.
 Yeah, it really kind of sounds like it, but when you saw yourself kind of (background noise) to put those people together in a group like, what the hell is wrong with me, I mean (background noise).
 Yeah like wi- wi- like all you can see is kind of groups that aren't groups that you've worked with.
 Yeah, I hear that like I was in-you're insensitive, you can't see kind of what's wrong and kind of rectify it, work on it. [0:36:39.5]
 You weren't (crosstalk)
 Yeah, it's like you were really kind of starting to doubt that you could really hear and be sensitive to - 
  - things happened to quickly kind of worked with the group thing.
 Just kind of feeling really (inaudible) about yourself.
 That's kind of how you felt about how you were doing, you felt like really crying on the inside.
 Just kind of like the just utter despair at seeing yourself not being able to do that.
 It just really kind of made you ache inside, want to cry out. [0:38:25.2]
 It's kind of like it being your doubt and kind of you and (inaudible at 0:39:00.1) there was like you had confirmation.
 Other people were saying that you had, you were doing a bad job.
 It really must be true, like it kind of makes you say to yourself - 
 Yeah, and in this case it kind of confirmed what you were feeling about so it kind of had the really strong impact.
 Kind of confirmed -  [0:40:00.1]
 Kind of like... is that the kind of thing where... of... what other people kind of think about you is really that important to you.
 Kind of you need that - 
  - affirmation, confirmation.
 (Crosstalk)
 Well, I guess in a way, it's kind of like it assumes paramount importance - 
  - and I guess it assumes, does it assume paramount importance because it's like it's hard for you to feel the competence inside of yourself.
 Right. You need the support of others, rather than being your own source of support.
 And his responding to you.
 Yeah, it's kind of like, you really kind of wanted and needed that knowledge that you come first.
 Yeah, I guess we're just saying is very often kind of like it's other people's kind of... you're wanting to feel your need, no, the fact, no... most of the time it's like you feel like what's paramount is that you do feel kind of the approval, confirmation from other peoples. It's not a perspective because you really need to know it and it's really super important for you to know it. [0:43:51.8]
 Kind of like you never felt worthwhile just from doing something in and of itself, but what people said about... say about what you do.
 Yeah, your sense of confidence, sense of worth that it came from other people's giving it to you, saying it to you.
 Saying you've done good, you are good.
 Yeah. But it was kind of... it's really hard for you just to take it from yourself and see if from yourself.
 And to have the kind of confidence to carry it through on yourself, you need other people to help you along and give you approval along the way.
 Mm-hmm. Be your own source of (inaudible).
 And how do you change.
 And it's like you can see it well I do-another big thing I don't like about myself and I see and I recognize it makes me feel bad. What do I do with it?
 How do... how do you feel about... like when you're saying about yourself, I see that I really depend on other people, how does that make you feel about yourself?
 Kind of like you can't stand up on your own two feet.
 That's, yeah, that's putting it too - 
 Too strong. But what is the inadequate feeling kind of like just don't feel yourself kind of be as strong and kind of solid inside as you'd really like yourself to be.
 Not full and kind of a whole person I guess.
 Solid.
 Like you're kind of inadequate weak or kind of unfulfilled, undeveloped.
 I see. Unfulfilled kind of has... means fulfilled and that's something to come to but right now you just don't feel... well I guess they are to... at least I guess I was thinking of when you say (inaudible) I guess the point being is right now, is you feel the lack of aspect, rather than the what could be - 
  - aspect. Kind of like you can really sense what you're not.
 You look troubled, or disturbed.
 It's kind of like... is it you're feeling like you say it and there it is and - 
  - where the hell to go with it?
 See I kind of sense as you're talking about feeling inadequate but I mean it... one... maybe one problem of getting somewhere with this because like I have trouble understanding the sense of what it feels like to you feeling yourself as inadequate. Kind of like you can... saying that I'm inadequate, but...
 How about now? Does it bother you?
 What kind of abstractly bothers you?
 Yeah, that's the sense I have. Like you can talk about it as a problem, but it's almost like an abstract problem, you don't feel it that, like it bothering you that much now.
 Feel good, feeling (crosstalk) - 
 It's kind of will it crop its head up again?
 It's kind of a worry, but I guess you're saying is it a... and it bothered me then because I saw it like me needing or depending on the effect of what another person thought kind of... it doesn't really fully bother me now, I guess is what you're saying.
 It's because you're - 
 You're feeling pretty strong.
 Right. It's not going to throw you.
 So you feel like you have enough inside not to be thrown.
 Can take more.
 Right. (Crosstalk) thrown.
 Yeah, but I guess you're saying now is I do feel good and I don't quite feel as if other people saying things about me is really going to throw me because I do kind of have a sense that I'm okay inside.
 And I just... and it feels pretty there.
 (Crosstalk)
 Right. And kind of feeling down. When you feel down, you feel so vulnerable and a little thing which might have implied someone's feelings about me really push you down further.
 Mm-hmm. Because you needed that.
 You can feel it inside for your own.
 Right. It's... well it's, I think part of what you're seeing is like what I am and how I feel about myself is kind of a function of how I feel inside.
 I think probably what you're seeing is kind of how I feel about myself, what I feel inside, is really a function of how I'm feeling.
 How you're feeling, like when you're feeling good - 
 You don't, you don't feel so dependent or be thrown by so much by other people. You don't feel so doubtful or confused about yourself.
 Kind of what you've been saying all along.
 And it's kind of like, well it's not real now, but it's real at another time.
 And what's real for you now is you're feeling pretty okay about yourself.
 Right. Yeah. Oh, we've got to stop.
 Interview Number 9, Client 0324-006,. ... in here.
I want to share a reaction I had that puzzled me over the weekend, and that was after you called up on Friday and I had made another appointment. Like I didn't feel right after I hung up, and I knew that... I... my mind said, "Yes, she said it was okay.", but I somehow... I was worried that it wasn't okay and that you had maybe said okay when it wasn't. And that sounds like I'm... I'm suspicious, but I thought about it awhile, and let me say what I thought. 
I think what it made me think of finally was times when you've described situations where you haven't said something to somebody, and like maybe that made me worry, "Was that one of those times?" Guess I need to check that out with you. That's kind of warm.
 Yeah.
 Okay. I've... I've got it. (silence) Well, I guess I kind of... like in a way I hear you saying, "Well, still it (inaudible at 3:35)."
 Yeah, that's fine. I... I need to get a footstool that I can use when I have a skirt on. Is that coming in?
 Pull it this way and I can use it. Yeah, in a way it makes me... it makes me feel kind of sad, because like I had no... I had just a vague sense afterwards that there... that something wasn't right, and I didn't have it enough even at the time to... I can remember saying, "Is it really all right?", which I was I guess like a lead-in to that. Anyway, it just followed me.
 So after you really had something going and it would have been useful and... or you...
 In here you mean?
 Oh, what did I do?
 Sounds like that's something he would [inaudible at 12:13].
 I would have felt like it felt really good to be there for someone...
 ...for him as well as for this friend.
 That really... not really screwy what it sounds like.
 Something vital it sounds like.
 Like how?
 You mean to cut yourself?
 You mean sick from the pills, or psychologically?
 You know let me... I want to say something I'm not sure you'll like. This, is like off the top of my head, but I don't like to make a big thing out of this suicide business. You're like... act like oh it's a... a big symptom that I'm interested in, but I like I realize that... that I'm having a very strong reaction to your telling me this because like what... you've been here a half an hour and Jesus you tell me this stuff and I'm thinking, "I didn't know anything about it.", and like it just brings home to me how cut off you were and are and must have felt. I... I don't know what I'm trying to tell you. Maybe I'm saying, "Geez I wish... like I wish you had called me." Maybe I'm saying that. I don't know, but I think I'm... I'm trying to tell you like I really feel very affected hearing you say that, like it concerns me a lot and it concerns me that you were by yourself, and that like there was somebody in the next room that you couldn't say anything to. Now I don't... I'm not really sure what came across from me there because like I didn't (chuckles) have time to work it out, but really it makes me feel awful for you, and I'm really sad that somehow, some way, there's nothing you feel you can do at that time. [36:42]
 Did he go... excuse me, did he go with you to Billings? Did he stay with you all that day?
 How was... how was that between you, or were you really too sick to notice?
 You were glad. Did he know you were glad?
 Okay. And how did... now maybe you were about to tell me what I'm going to ask, but like do you have any sense in... and how did he feel? Like did you end up feeling rotten because you'd involved him at all or...? [38:28]
 Yeah, it sounds like sort of asking with some... it's the wrong word to use, but I can't think of another one at this point. It's like... like asking with some dignity, or with some... some self-respect or containment or something.
 Now wait. What the thing that you needed to try? To tell him about it or to take the pills?
 Oh, okay.
 Okay.
 Well, it sounds like... it's like you're saying, "I didn't"... "I did need him and I did express that, but I didn't... I don't see myself as manipulating him, or as like enmeshing him".
 It sounds like it was a lousy experience, but at least there's something... I'm not sure. I wouldn't say it feels good, because it doesn't sound like any of it felt very good but...
 ...but like there's a... I don't know, a learning or something.
 And now where does all this leave you?
 I've... I've heard about where you were up to this morning. Where are you now? [42:01]
 No, I don't. I really don't.
 Would... would aspirin hurt your stomach? Is that why you're asking?
 I... I've... I know people that that happens with. I don't know...
 Well, it sounds like you just feel depleted then... or at least part of what I'm hearing is, "Oh".
 Has an organic effect.
 There was something that sounds like that it... that just this... this... this energy that you were using to get yourself out of it or something felt good, because it felt like a... like a push away from... from this... I don't know what to call it, isolation and... and... well, I think I...
 You know what I'm talking about. I don't what... quite what to...
 And like now you... you... you don't exactly have all the energy right now, but there's something that... you... you feel hope almost in what you're saying.
 What do you mean really bad?
 So there's more battered and beaten...
 ...and then misshapen.
 Are you saying it's... or I guess maybe I'm just reading in it li... like a conflict because you... I hear you really having some... some feelings and some first-hand sort of empathy-type feelings about what it's like to be... well, almost to have driven somebody away and needing...
 ... somebody when you don't deserve it as you put it. But... but like I also hear a, "God, that would take a lot out of you.", like have you got a lot... have you... like what could you do?
 Like your not... you're saying, "Look, I'm not sure when I'm going to ha... when I really am going... when I'm going to have the resources, or when I really feel solid about this".
 Yeah. That's like it's... it's also saying something like, "Man, that month is a real risk for me at this point". 
 Like it's not only that I don't seem to be able to be... to help... to be able to be helpful, it's like... like, "What's that going to do to me from... in terms of where I am now?"
 Well, it seems like being impaled in a way.
 I have no... why... where I got that image from, but like really... I don't know. 
 Like you... like suddenly you saw yourself walling yourself off from any... everybody and it looked awfully familiar.
 Um hm. It sounds like you'd really like to be able (chuckles) to say that to somebody. Maybe just say it once.
 Like what a petty concern compared with your mother.
 Um hm. Namely you. (chuckles)
 So you had a lot of... it sounds like what I'm hearing a couple of reactions like one is sort of frightened, one is like an insight, and I don't know if any was like the feeling but anyway. And another one, it sounds like anger or some wish to just push it away, like let somebody else do it. Not me now. [57:02]
 You have some feeling like you have... oh, let's see how to put it. Like you really... because there's some resemblances, or you... you feel like there's some resemblances between what she does and how you are sometime, that it's absolutely necessary that you keep yourself separate from her?
 In all of these.
 Man, those things can cripple.
 I know. It'd almost be a bad thing tucked away or being lost.
 And it's like there's too much overlap and that kind of renders you... well, like it ends up... it not only ends up maybe damaging you, but making it really hard for you to... I don't know. It's... it's like saying, "Look you need a certain distance to be able to help somebody else and I don't have that with my mother". 
 I don't have that. I'm confused. I feel bruised. I feel cut down by her. All I can do is react. I'm not able to sort of act.
 It really helped to hear that in some way?
 Yeah, that was the word that came to me like that. It may sort of feel weak or like meaningless to someone else, but like it really helps to have that...
 ...at that point because it sounds like in one way you feel the same way. You've got to have that separation to retain any...
 ...sense of yourself.
 Now before I stop I want... I've... in the back of my mind, I've been going around trying to stick to what I was saying before, and I guess I... I don't want you to... I don't intend to convey and I... I don't... I hope you don't hear me saying, "Look I... I'm not trying to persuade you to call on me when you feel out, but I am... I was trying to say and am trying to say very clearly that really concerned me to hear that, and I... I... I feel very badly that you went through that alone by the way, and I want you to hear both things very clearly.
   Why didn't you want to come?
   That's what you were feeling last week, too.
   Well, I mea—, you know, sounds very much as though what you're — you say you feel letdown, you didn't want to come, and what good is it to come for 3 days anyway.  I mean, you don't get what you want.  You connect this with everything you've been feeling and doing last week.  I think when you say it was as if you were eating a Christmas baby, you know, that's very close to what really is going on in your mind.  You had your period, to boot, as if to emphasize that you did not have the baby you wanted.  That the frantic cooking that, you know, all the cookies that you were baking and baking and baking, were all part of as though you were expressing that way, very strongly again.  You wanted to be making a baby.  But not just any baby.  I mean, there's one baby, after all, really connected with Christmas.  And you ended up Christmas day, without it.
   Hmm, but Jesus is also Jewish.  And you remember —
   — last week, one of the mysteries was, how could people who are not Jewish have a child who had a Jewish disease?  Or in that sense, have a Jewish child.  You were skirting around, am I Jewish, or am I German, and I think you had to settle on German, because what you were really secretly fantasying was, maybe you and I were both secretly Jewish, and we could have a Jewish child.  And it didn't happen.
   And, is MEINZ the fellow you had the fantasies about?
   Well your mother said they're taboo.  They're out of bounds.
   Yeah, except, you know, within a very restricted way, like loving to hear him talk and feeling close to him when he talked to you.
   (Cough, Sniff) Well, our time's up.
 Okay. Now. I saw you [DATE]. Your a, back then, your mood was better but you were very irritable, your appetite was good, your sleep was good, self esteem was okay. No suicidal thinking, you were somewhat helpless, concentration was okay, enjoying music and TV and kind of obsessed with your helplessness. Almost to a, you know, have you heard of obsessive compulsive disorder?
 Oh no.
 [PATIENT NAME] has this been starting again? The whoa is me stuff?
 Yeah. Well, it’s not your fault. It’s your brain. So, you’re unraveling a little bit? 
 When did that start? 
 Two or three weeks?
CG: That’s the last, yeah…
 Maybe you shouldn’t come here anymore.
CG: [INAUDIBLE] behavior becomes
 But, are you concerned with the questions I’m asking?
 Because I’m going to ask about your mood and your interests and your 
 [INAUDIBLE], self esteem.
CG: He said last night he’s afraid of everything.
 That’s right. 
 That’s what happens but especially it happens when you have uh, Parkinson’s syndrome. It enfeebles people.
CG: [INAUDIBLE]
 Okay, but the MRI, the neurologic exam was all normal?
CG: Right. 
 And you’re dealing with [NAME OTHER] with this? You talk about it with [NAME OTHER] and she is helping guide this. 
CG: No, [NAME OTHER] is helping guide this 
 You’re mood started to drop two weeks ago? 
 He was supposed to see me about a month ago. So, maybe that’s why. 
CG: Maybe. 
 Okay. How’s his sleep? How are you sleeping? 
 Oh yeah?
CG: That was only, that was only today, and yesterday?
 So, in general he sleeps okay? 
CG: In general.
 How’s your self esteem? Low?
 You feel guilty?
 That means you probably feel guilty. What’s not your fault? Being so depressed? 
 Do you sometimes feel that life’s not worth living?
 Do you have any plan to hurt yourself?
 Are you able to get any pleasure out of anything?
 Has he been playing?
 Are you able to concentrate on anything? Are you easily distracted?
 And you just can’t, can’t enjoy things?
 Can’t enjoy then. How many times have you fallen?
 Yeah.
CG: In the last two or three weeks he’s has to have fallen at least three times each week, at least. 
 Has uh, has [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] been checking his blood pressures sitting and standing?
 Are you dizzy when you stand up?
 You’re not?
CG: It’s not always going from sitting to standing, he could be already up and walking and just…
 When did, now he’s had cycling moods his whole life? Right? Did, do you recall was he worse in the winter time? Is he seasonal?
CG: It’s hard, you know, it’s hard to know because I don’t know whether you know, it’s seasonal or whether…
 And the, manias, or the revving up, also there was no season to it?
CG: No seasons.
 Yeah. Any big stressor now? That set off this worsening
 What?
 Well, is there anything that seemed to set this off?
 What do you think about it?
 So it’s nice to take some of the pressure off your wife, isn’t it? I mean, do you, don’t you want her life to be a little fuller than being wrapped up with taking care of you?
 Yeah.
CG: But, where are you? Where are you? 
 Right.
CG: So that if he were encouraged to sit down and play piano and people came and paid attention to them
 Right, but you’re not my patient, he is. I want him functioning well, I’d be delighted if you guys function well too, that’s fine, but I want him functioning to the best of his capacity. Given that he’s got these serious limitations, right? He’s got rip roaring medication resistant depression, he’s got some neuropsychiatric syndrome, parkinsonian, I mean at least he’s got his memory. You know, at least it’s not affecting his memory. 
CG: He was, he’s working in physical therapist.
 Almost, almost unlivable. 
 Well, that’s the obvious question. We’ve tried them all. 
CG: And you don’t think raising the Lithium?
 Yeah, yeah. Sedating, sure. sure. I think we should trade tentatively, we should trade Marplan for something else. That wouldn’t make him unsteady. 
 You know we could try there, there are two that comes to mind, I think he should be on a MAO inhibitor.
CG: Mm-hmm.
 Hassle. I don’t know why it didn’t work last time, and I gave a good strong dose of it and it just didn’t move him. 
 We’d rather you to see, you know, this past try…
 What are you at, twenty, twenty something treatments
CG: Right.
CG: Mm-hmm.
CG: And…
 Well, she won’t let the Marplan run out because she has to deal with you when, when uh, when it runs out. I think for her own survival she wants you on the Marplan.
CG: My, mine run out, but I never let his run out. 
 All right. This, this is not going to be solved. We’re taking him off the Marplan, he’s got… 
CG: All together?
 Mentally 
 Because we have to take you off the Marplan keep you off it for at least a week and then start something new. 
CG: I would rather see how he would do to reduce the Marplan to twenty and then raise the, if you got a level on… 
 What year was that? 
 Morse code, that’s…
 1942?
CG: Yeah. 
 Oh yeah?
CG: Than everybody else. Mm-hmm. He’s got a good ear.
 Good morning.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [00:01:28]
 My goodness.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I think so, yep.
 Mmhm.
Pause at [00:10:02] to [00:12:58]
 Mmhm. [00:13:30]
 Hmm. Then that could be it.
 Get out.
 Hmm.
 Yeah you have really not had much go your way for a few years.
 Oh, sorry to hear that.
 Do you feel this hopeless most of the time?
 Yeah. [00:25:06]
 Yeah. [00:26:32]
 I see.
 Um, how come you're keeping the dog?
 Uh huh.
 I see.
 Uh huh. How long do pitbulls tend to live?
 The animal shelters won't take him because he's too old?
 Can't do it because they might put him to sleep or can't do it because you'd be parting with him?
 'cuz you love him.
 Yeah.
Pause at [00:31:15] to [00:32:41]
 How much do you feel like the dog, like your, made a mess every day, like you're anxious as all hell, like you're trapped and terrified of the ways you've been left alone?
 Think.
Pause at [00:36:08] to [00:36:38]
 Mmhm. [00:37:44]
 Can you tell her you want to see them on Sunday?
 Do you want to see them on Sunday?
 Mmhm.
 At least you're getting out you know?
 Well we should finish up for now.
 I um, I'm gonna need to reschedule I think for next Friday the twenty fifth.
 Session 22-115, interview number seven. February 9, 1971. Client 0222-115, interview number seven, February 9.
 I'm afraid we (inaudible).
 Yes.
 Very true.
 Well, it doesn't sound like you really weren't starting anything.
 (inaudible) not to help that sense of getting set before, suddenly a lot of things just falling down.
 I want to hear what you're saying. You wouldn't like it if you did?
 There's something, it sounds like, about these evenings feeling tired, tense, or whatever (crosstalk) [7:29]
 It sounds like you feel pursued by things (crosstalk).
 Is that the goal? These things that you've mentioned, they all kind of have that sense. But you have to wait for Jessica to respond, and you've got to wait for your check, and you've got to wait, I guess, to see what these checks that are bouncing are gonna do. So there isn't any breakout or any light coming through.
 That (inaudible) pretty low if that's what makes your day.
 But those other things sound like they feel so far off that they're just, like totally unreal, and it's discouraging to have to pin your hopes on love they don't provide. [11:42]
 So you're wondering if you've stepped into a trap rather than into a step toward something.
 Yeah. That's part of - we're all limited to being very real.
 Now there's something frightening about being so vulnerable to being affected by outside things. Like talking to somebody else, or a song shifting you.
 Well, it may be an ego trip, but it feels to me like a very necessary (inaudible).
 Like a bunch of pieces thrown all around or something, really that's how it feels to (inaudible).
 Like none of it caused suspicion and hostility that you sense might be there?
 So it sounds like that's working out OK. It doesn't have any of the tension or anything in it that you felt, but it's not giving you that solid feeling you hoped for, or...
 Let me inject a fact in here. In terms of paying this bill, you can arrange - you can easily make an arrangement to defer what you owe here until you have more. This would be in addition to your reduction. 
 Well, maybe they're listening. But anyway, when you get one, if you want to make an arrangement to defer it you can.
 Of course, that's probably negligible enough (inaudible).
 But it adds up.
 Yeah, I have this vision of being on the beach with these breakers, and as soon as one breaks (inaudible) the whole thing crashes. On the beach there's another one, right behind it. And every one of them is washing over you. 
 It's pulling you back down... Wasn't meant to be funny.
 I'm not quite sure that I've got it yet. Is it like you're going to find out that you've been off somewhere alone in something that's not real, and here you've been acting like it was?
 It sounds almost like people and things would be sending you signals that you were really out of it, or very different. But you would have no way of knowing quite where that - I don't know how to put it, it's like you wouldn't quite know what had happened and you would have no way of telling what was real. You'd just know that you haven't quite got it, or something. Makes you shudder. [28:44]
 Are you having that feeling right now?
 Am I scaring you?
 More the thought of it.
 Like your psychological resistance is low.
 Yeah, because when that conflict sort of manifests itself, the pulling gets very frightening. [30:01]
 There's no way of avoiding. Avoiding them that you're expecting that acid would make it worse?
 And really, it sounds like really basic too.
 It sounds like you're saying, when you get those feelings with acid or something like that, you can put it off to something. You can put it off on, "Something inside me knows I'll come down off of it."
 But it's frightening when it feels like it's part of you, is what I'm (inaudible).
 It looks to me like you're kind of still being gripped by that.
 Are there any thoughts or pictures in your mind?
 I was wondering if you felt pulled toward him or something.
 You mean what you'd been thinking about him?
 It's like each little thing that you do to indicate that you felt really apart or really upset, really would have a meaning, like you'd taken an irrevocable step where you couldn't take that back that you really screamed and screamed and screamed. You couldn't take that back. You really think that could mean something. You know what that something is? 
 But sometimes doing something like that is a relief, but it sounds like it really wouldn't be that for you.
 Yeah, it's like even that quick change there was something scary to it all. 
 You're just saying that to (crosstalk) (inaudible).
 If you could pinpoint the cause, somehow that would help? Maybe. 
 It sounds like you're saying there's got to be a (inaudible) to it, I mean it would be so helpful to find the one thing that's the hub of it all, it would get there. We could see what it was. That might not stop it, but it would have a name. 
 But you didn't feel any longer like, well I'm (inaudible) sitting here reading this book by this man, it's like seeing yourself there, or a theme defined by the ending of that book, or something, and having no way of putting it aside like you do with a book.
 I see. I [can get you] (ph). It's like everywhere you look you see what's determining you. And there's nothing that feels essentially yours and nobody else's. Or yours and you can't say, "Well, I see that's just a product of such-and-such."
 I guess it's the casting off says something to me, like if there's something that's really you, you can't cast it off. You've got it for good and you can hang on to it. But it's like the disposability of all these things that's (inaudible). [47:16]
 The (inaudible), yeah. It's almost, in a way, like you don't want her to see all these things that you're going through, in a way. You want her to ask for herself -
 What came out of [this life] (ph), she'd only be seeing these manifestations. But she would end up - she wouldn't know what you were either.
 Yeah, you said that earlier tonight... No. I didn't mean you were repeating yourself.
 No, what you said - I know I heard this 'cause it made me think of your telling me before your definition of crazy and you said something on the order of, "I'm really uncomfortable with myself now. I'm bad off with myself now."
 It's like (inaudible) but if you call her, it sounds like you might not know who you're calling. Or, when she doesn't write, you don't know who she'll be the next time she does (inaudible).
 Yeah, and that's the main point right now, I wasn't sure what this was about. Is it some consequence you feel that you're showing different things than (inaudible) her? That's where I'm not clear about. Or maybe that's too much of a head defying question.
 Will it help you to stay here a while longer? Because I have the time to do that if you want to. Although it really is up to you.
 That's some really concrete research (inaudible).
 It sounds like right now though, the release is kind of paramount, or the being occupied with other things that's important for you. I mean right now, tonight, I mean.
 Now look, let me say that I don't know if it would be any help to you or not. But if you want to talk to somebody, or if that will help your - first thing would be to call me.
 Please do. You know, like sometimes I'm hard to find. But don't have any compunctions about calling in the evening or something like that. In fact, you can even wake me up in the middle of the night. It might take me a while to get into it, but I mean that. Sometimes that isn't much of a help to people, but if it is, do.
 OK. Do you want Friday at 7?
 OK. Thank you.
 (Inaudible). It's roofing solvent. That's why, remember I said something about being gas lines, well it seems to be coming back. And the kind of thing that's so bad about it was last week it was in everybody's office. Today, it's only in (crosstalk).
 Have a seat. I'm just trying to picture where this camera should be so that it will be on you. 
 All right. I'm sorry about that. Let me turn this on. I think it is running, yeah. Okay, so, how are you?
 Yeah? 
 Like you don't have anything to say to him?
 What was it the right hand person, like to the boss you mean?
 Can you say some more about that, I'm sorry I didn't track that; what you were saying, "You were right handed?"
 And so those were both examples of being close to your boss; what do you think helped you, sort of, be aware of that point?
 Of what was going on, yeah. Do you remember what it felt like to be in that elevator with him for example? I mean can you think of your feelings. 
3:57
 So you were remembering, kind of, some of the negative thoughts that you had about what he might be thinking and remembering that you didn't really have any positive thoughts like, "Oh, there is Alicia and it's great that she is here," some positive thoughts about you.
 Okay, so let me see if I understand this, you felt like you didn't have anything to go on in terms of reaching out to him, in terms of who he is; like you didn't know what to talk about?
 Because he hadn't given you those things; is that right?
 Well, there is no evaluation for that, you know. It's interesting to think about that though, just to reflect upon what that might be like for you to be in that position of not knowing and guessing, probably the direction of, well this means he doesn't like me if he hasn't extended himself out. 
 And it is easier to understand your reaction, also thinking about the two of you, like he is bringing some thing to the table too, in terms of him not extending. I mean, that serves a purpose. It may not be to not give you anything but it sounds like in the absence of getting any information from him it made you feel more awkward than you normally might in that setting. It's important information for us to know and for you to be aware of with people.
 Yeah, from him and that might make you more. 
 It might be. What do you think about that observation?
 Okay, I mean it sounds like it but you are the best person for us to ask about that. 
 Tim was the guy who interviewed you?
 Did you ever have anything in terms of something you could point your finger at like what happened? Was there a particular event that you remember?
 I see. But you were just the messenger from this boss. 
 And did you like Tim?
 Was he someone that - what do you mean by that?
 It's hard to figure out what was going on there. 
 Let me see if I understand this, because part of what you were saying about feeling like people are cold to you it really sets you off. It is really hard for you to know what to do and it makes you feel awkward. Compared to, does that connect with, sort of, what we were talking about now with choosing jobs that feel like and not knowing what to do in those jobs? Are they somehow similar or related in any way? 
 Yeah, or even the jobs that you do choose or knowing how to interact with people at work. Do you think that is related?
 Let me get a sense of how long that has been because in terms of your history. So currently you are working at this temp job?
 And when did you start this job?
 Okay, so right before the summer. So how about before that what was going on?
 So it doesn't feel like you have a choice right now? It sounds like you just sort of take whatever comes up.
 Tell me a little bit about this job now, the most recent one, the one that you started in May. 
14:14
 Depressing how?
 So you don't want to be in a situation where you are working with a mean person?
 So, tell me again, I am just trying to formulate here out loud a little bit about what it is that you think brings you to that point of picking mean people? I mean has every job been one where you have worked for someone that was difficult?
16:14
 You were eighteen, just a kid still. 
 So do you feel guilty about that still, like now when you think about it?
 I'm going to interrupt you for a second I just noticed as you are talking about your life that there is this, kind of, tone to it like this happened and then that happened, but it sounds like or part of what we are talking about are seems like very emotional things that you have some feelings about. Are you aware of this sort of keeping these things or this voice or details of things, event after event? 
 How did you feel about that move?
 Just that day? 
 How do you feel about it now? I mean about leaving the situation not necessarily being in the situation but the being able to leave it. 
 How old were you then?
 They wanted you to get married and move away from them? 
 And feel like you were going to be taken care of?
 How long were you in Belfast?
 Back here in Ohio?
 Wow.
 Something is keeping you from getting to your goals, attaining your goals?
 It sounds like, in a very short period of time you were able to change tracks and it seems like it wouldn't be very easy to fell like one minute you were making money, turning tricks, this is the business I am in and then to say, I'm going to get out of this and I am going to college, to finish college. It just seems like you needed to be pretty focused to be able to do that. 
 See some of this process is that we talk about it and it sounds like you are mourning some expectations that were not met for you, things that you expected of yourself but they didn't happen.
 And how do you see therapy helping that, helping you get on track with work? 
 Do you have any ideas or ways in which you think that might help or may not help? When you decided that you wanted to come to therapy, what lead you to that decision?
 So what is your sense of, I mean, tell me a little bit about your therapy experience. So it was in your 30's that you had therapy, or went to therapy first? 
 To you?
 And one of the things with abusive parents is, you described both your dad and your mom, is that you are playing out some power dynamic that as a child you had no control over and you don't have any awareness of what is going on in terms of who has the power here and you are obviously dealing with the effects of it. For example, like, if your father yells at you about something, you deal with the effects of that not realizing, well this is a full grown adult who has some control over if he is decides to yell at you or not. And you as a child didn't have any choice about listening to that or hearing that. 
 Well, yeah that is a real difference now, as an adult. You do have some choice in who you or what kind of situations you are associating with. 
 Do you somehow elicit that from people, that response? 
35:20
 Then it is disappointing when the results you want never come. It just seems like you are working so hard at getting that somehow, which is to please the boss. 
 That was never defined as part of your job at the beginning. 
 Which is something that all of us do. 
 That's part of why you are doing that. 
 In terms of trying to please him?
 Hard to know what to do in those situations it sounds like.
 So you have carried that over?
 Are there times when you are haven't and then other times when you have stuck up for yourself in situations with your boss?
38:23
 What makes it so hard to figure out? 
 Which is probably a lot of what you are made of which is to take care of other people, to make sure that their needs are taken care of. So has there ever been a time when you did say no to somebody just because you needed the rest of the afternoon off or something like that or you needed to get yesterdays work done before you get more. 
 Are there times now, like at this present job?
 It seems like it is hard for you to develop a sense of, that you have come far because when I asked you about the difference in coming back from Ireland and where you got your degree and finished and it felt like you shrugged that away. 
 It is hard to look back sometimes even to see the positives sometimes. 
 It is hard to stay there and just be happy that you graduated and you got a 3.6.
 Hard to feel good about yourself? 
 It seems like you have some clues in terms of your past history, you have some ideas about why this may be happening here with you and it is important for us to keep reflecting back on what your ideas are and not just about past jobs but sort of what happens day to day right now. So in terms of you temping right now but what are your goals; are you actively seeking another job?
 More permanent?
 And when you are able to find a job, chances are you are probably going to take it? Is that my understanding or do you think you might have some choice in what you pick?
 Yeah you can enter a new place to sit with like in terms of what is different about this time then, say last time when you had to pick a job. You are supposed to start there in figuring out what may be next for you. You need to get a sense of okay, you are doing okay in terms of living space you are not in a place where you have to take a job to be able to pay rent. Do you pay a lot of rent?
 Sounds like it is a different place in some ways then what you described in the past. 
 That's good. 
 You are talking about him like, what are you thinking about or what are you feeling, you smiled. Did you notice that your face or you sort of smirked? 
 So that is a new place too then in terms of relationships for you. 
 Okay, well we need to end because it is about five after. 
47:31
 But this time, I mean six o'clock will be okay for you? 
 I just want to check, how was the form last week? Did it, was it self explanatory enough?
 Okay, let me give you this one for this week. 
 Okay, that's fine. Yeah if you have some time, it doesn't matter when you do it just if you do it as soon as the session is over it is probably a little easier to remember what happened in the session. 
 Okay. 
 And payment for this week?
 That's okay. I just wanted to know if you had your check book. Now you said you paid thirty last week?
 Okay, I just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Let me go get you a receipt for this too so you can start keeping track of the receipts if you want.
 You're okay with that?
 Sounds good so I will see you next week. 
 Okay, see you later.
 This, is interview number four, interview number four.Plan 0735 - 103, plan 0735 - 103. Interview number four...June 29th 1970, June 29th 1970.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, we had an elevator in the...nothing (ph)
 Oh, no. no.
 You don't have an ashtray? There's one there.
 Hmm?
 This one. It doesn't matter. It'll pick it up so you don't have to think about facing it or anything.
 What's been happening?
 Were you wanting to know? (inaudible at 2:06)
 Oh, ok.
 Uh, huh. Like with it you could take care of it by, sort of letting the tape recorder worry about it.
 Yeah, I'm getting something of an idea from what you're saying about it.Like it's not that you've given up, but that you sort of like -
 Yeah, it's not that everything would be over if you got divorcedThat wouldn't be the end of the line. [4:16]
 Ah, how do you mean that?
 Uh huh, I think I am getting it. It's like you don't have to look at it, as like you're either going to succeed or fail sexually. Like -
 Yeah, I wasn't sure how you meant it, like maybe it made you feel like she cared or maybe, you didn't like it because it was sort of like -
 Yeah, because you take it as a sign that she's interested in you and concerned - 
 Yeah, yeah. Which leaves you in some basic way very much alone.
 Yeah, like I get two parts of that I see in you...like one is needing each other and depending on each other and the other part is someone thinking your number one.
 Yeah. When did you start thinking along those lines, right back there as depressed as you were? 
 It makes you feel less like trying, if she's not trying.
 Let me give that a bit of thought between now and then, James. (ph) 
 Uh, huh. That's one change or kind of progress that you see. It's sort of like, shifting your viewpoint a little and starting to see yourself like a person, like a human being. Yeah, I don't think I've said that as a...hmm. Yeah.
 Yeah. Letting the sexual things be the whole center of everything. [18:28]
 Yeah, and I think...I guess what you're coming around to is like; there's more to the boat than that. Like there is your whole life as a human being.
 Yeah, it doesn't dominate.
 Like, it's going to be a pleasant thing but it's kind of casual. [20:26]
 Yeah, because it's nice to see her being encouraged but ah don't know whether -
 Making the best of it. [23:10]
 And I guess what you're saying before was that like you realize that she's never going to 100 percent fit the pattern you had in mind. 
 Yeah, but...pretty damn clear why you don't believe her. I guess it's like she lied to you all that time - 
 Yeah, it sounds like your feeling is almost like...and she damn well doesn't deserve to be believed. [26:27]
 Yeah, that kind of like putting her to the test.
 A little bit, yeah. But I guess in some way, you feel mean to her...you damn well do.
 Yeah, yeah. Is, she willing to do something for...you don't know.
 You didn't appreciate what she said -
 So like, your reaction to her is like, "Don't tell me it's my fault."
 She uses her sort of, perceptiveness of you...not like for communication, like but for manipulation? [36:43]
 No, see...I think I see what you mean. It's both about a more important issue and it's subtler. 
 No, no, no.
 Was there something you wondered about that? Or...
 But like, for you it's more that like women are easier to talk to and like...I guess listen better. It's part of it.
 No, no. no. [41:55]
 You lucked out.
 Hmm. I wonder if you're expecting that one of the these days now when we've got all the data out we'll sort of sit down, and I'll tell you what I think. Do you have something like that in mind?
 Yeah, like, as soon as like...you can't help to be expecting it'll be more conclusive somehow.
 Yeah, so having it all laid out.
 How do you mean that?
 Regressing - is what I meant.
 Yeah, it really sets you off.
 But you suspect they were looking at you. 
 So that's kind of one way of grasping at your masculinity, like noticing that hey...
 And it works...eh, it kind of makes you attractive and sexy and - [49:04]
 Like, I guess you're saying that there...I suppose you didn't enjoy your wife having downgraded it, but still like, you kind of took what she said because like you thought maybe she was right that you were making too much out of it. [51:50]
 Do you mean like, maybe you just as soon see your wife with not anybody else? I don't think I got you...
 Yeah, I see. [53:31]
 You mean like, because when you're frank with her there are too many ways for her to botch it up? I was thinking of the girl who winked -
 Hmm, sometimes she tells you more than you want to hear.
 What's everything? Or did you mean you had doubts whether that's a good idea?
 I guess that means, like not talking at all isn't any solution either.
 I guess we should be quitting for today.
 Is Wednesday alright for you?
 Ah, 2:30?
 Ok. [57:54]
 This is the end of the hour with the research client. The rest of the stuff on this...this section till the end of the tape is recorded on this tape by mistake. There's no more research client after this point, on this tape, this track. 
 Not so much. Teenagers, yes, cognitive-behavioural therapy, no.
 I might have a recommendation.
 How cognitive-behavioural are you looking for?
 Okay.
 Okay. I know someone, who I'm pretty sure is in the Square, has sort of (pause) you know, she's sort of formally trained with cognitive-behavioural therapy. And (pause) you know, also can apply it more flexibly. You know, so like... [00:01:12]
 My next door neighbor, is certainly more cognitive-behavioural than I am, and was trained in some of that stuff. Although I don't think she ever does more formal, structured cognitive-behavioural treatment.
 So yeah book with this one first. There's nobody else that I know who does that stuff. (pause) No, I mean I'm mostly kind of in the...
 And we're not meeting tomorrow, is that right?
 Okay.
 Yes. Yeah, absolutely.
 Do you know about how long you'll be out of work?
 Oh, okay.
 Sure.
 Sure. Also I am getting off Blue Cross, finally, at the beginning of January. And (pause) there's just one more piece that relates to you and I have to figure out, but most of the pieces are straightforward. I mean, your plan will cover that PPO or POS or whatever.
 I, at the moment, am planning still to submit all the claims myself so you wouldn't have to do that. I, sometimes [inaudible [00:04:09] network, they would want you to submit the claims. But I'm going to submit them because it's easy for me to do, and a lot easier for me to be on top of all of them. [00:04:19]
They will, I think though send you the reimbursement. Like the check. And then you would need to—I guess what you need to pay me.
 The piece I'm still figuring out is so—a lot of the reason I'm doing it is because I can balance bills. Because I'm (laughs) I'm way underpaid compared to a lot of my peers. So (pause) I'm still keeping my overall rate low, but I'm getting off of Blue Cross so I can balance bills. [00:05:00]
And I have to (pause) see, you're mostly covered because of the amount Blue Cross will cover, which should be the same, $75 bucks, and the recordings, which will cover $50. And my regular rate is $150. So that would be like $25 on top of that. And I'm thinking I'll just probably start that with the change when I hear back from Blue Cross. But that's the piece that I'm still thinking about.
 That's January 1, yeah. I mean, I know when I have to tell Blue Cross. I just thought that it's going to be end of the year because some people who I see are going to switch from HMO plans to BPO plans, and if you're at the university at the time, they need that in a year. So it's not relevant for you. So that's the piece I'm still figuring out, but that's how I think I'm going to do it. [00:06:03]
 So but yeah, if you have any questions about that or anything else. Or not happy about it, or...
 My plan, at least initially, is not to make people pay me upfront. In other words, so the time will probably be something like this. I tend to—for some reason, I want to submit the claims, because I know I'll get them in fairly soon after the appointment. So I will every week. And at least with me, Blue Cross turns the claims around usually within two to three weeks. [00:07:07]
 Occasionally it's a little longer, but usually it's been two to three weeks. And I'm perfectly willing to wait two, three, four weeks to get paid. So like when we meet in January, presumably those checks would start coming—all the January checks would resume, they'd be to you by let's say the end of February.
 So I could probably wait till then to get paid. If it turns out that if Blue Cross is paying me directly, it's going to take them two months or something like that, then I'll figure something out.
 I see.
 Okay. So yeah, I think it'll probably work something like that. Like I would give you a bill (pause). Actually what will probably happen, because my billing software's getting fancy, is I think the way it will work is you'll be able to have your own account logged in at any time to see where you're at. Yeah. [00:08:25]
 Good. And you can pay right there with credit card, although I will probably cap out how people can pay with credit card, because otherwise I have to pay the credit card company. But you can just send me a check from your bank or something. I'd rather pay your credit card than pay that. But I think it will work like that. So I'll send out reminder e-mails once or twice a month like "Hey, check out you balance" or something. And then (pause) would want people to sort of pay probably by the end of the subsequent month for the previous month. So by the end of February [inaudible [00:09:10] for January. Assuming that most or all of the reimbursements would come in from Blue Cross by then. And then you can just come and do it yourself. [00:09:23]
 Good. So I think it'll work like that. But yeah, if anything else comes up, let me know. And I should know in the next week or so. I think I'm probably just going to start balancing bills in January. I was waiting, but I probably will just do it then. And (pause) yeah, I mean so you could pay that in the same way as the rest of it. Like I'm not going to be [inaudible [00:09:56] for these sessions.
 (pause) That was all [inaudible [00:10:07] in my head.
 I'm just kidding. but did you know when you're out from work?
 Oh, pretty soon. Okay.
 Right.
 Right, right. And it's a thing where isn't is also for you to take full-time off, like all your time off, than to take half days or something? [00:11:03]
 Right.
 Will it be more painful, or difficult, or...
 Okay.
 So is it essentially stretching and doing -
 Wow.
 Right, for a long time.
 Well I hope it helps.
 Right.
 So what happened in the e-mail exchanges with her? Like what were the three e-mails you wanted her to ignore? [00:18:01]
 You were sort of freaking out?
 For being so worried, or for like not having enough money, or...?
 I like that phrase.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right. (pause) I sort of got two impressions. One is I think you felt sort of more out of control of how you felt and what you were doing than you generally feel? [00:25:14]
 And two (pause) I guess I'm imagining that the (pause) the anger or the irritability is one of the main things, or the worry, seems maybe to be a worry about getting really angry or really taking it out on yourself or not being in control and being mad about that. You know, like you're worried about getting really frustrated or mad.
 Just sort of stewing over it?
 Remind me what you're doing?
 It's a good thing that (pause) what strikes me about, not about that, but about the weekend, is (pause) you had sort of these strong reactions to (pause) being disappointed or having things not be enough about you. I mean, even if sort of unreasonably so, as you later decided, in terms of bus schedules. (pause) [00:28:03]
Like it wasn't fitting well enough, it wasn't working well enough. It wasn't being taken care of, maybe somebody else should've been taking care of it better or should've figured it out better or should've been there more for you, or was being annoying because they were off doing their own thing. You don't often talk about getting irritated by things like that.
 I'm not even sure what to make of it, but that seems a bit different.
 Yeah.
 Oh wow.
 Oh, I didn't know that.
 Like literally, two hours.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 I mean, some of it with her and cleaning the kitchen is it was kind of nice.
 Yeah. A bunch of these things are like that, actually. I mean it's not as though she's way in your cleaning debt, if I understand.
 But it's more like it's pretty nice and now it kind of sucks. Which I think a lot of things are [inaudible [00:35:03] like your tomatoes, the housewarming party. [00:35:06]
 The scheduling. You know, none of it is (pause) stuff you want, you know, or living nicer or better or happier. You know what I mean?
 I don't know. I just think [inaudible [00:39:25] worried by being annoyed about things that aren't making you happy, or people that aren't making you happy in ways you want them to. (pause) I'm not sure what the bigger picture is there, but what occurs to me is actually I'm feeling like sort of (pause) [inaudible [00:39:56] I remember from last week that inaudible [00:40:03] one of the things that you were talking about? [00:40:08]
 Right.
 I think you're more inclined to do what you want, or not do what you don't want.
 Right, right.
 Right. [inaudible [00:45:32]
 Have a good weekend.
 Okay. Alright, I'll see you on Tuesday.
 Hi, come on in.
 Good, thank you.
 Yeah?
 This is your dad's mom?
 I see.
 Really.
 Are your siblings, in general, less angry at her? Is that – or are they just –
 [inaudible ].
 Well, I would actually maybe – what do you think about this, that you do, it's just a negative attachment? It doesn't seem like you're – well, it sounds like in part, you're indifferent, in part, you're kind of disappointed and angry and you're just like, forget it.
 Criticizing you for being overweight?
 Feel like a too little, too late?
 Not knowing it while you're – not knowing the cause, the triggers, or not knowing when you are angry?
 Yeah, no, you did.
 It was a reliable relationship.
 Well, you mentioned when you first came in, you mentioned that you were concerned about your marijuana use again.
 Is that still concerning? Are you still using?
 Is that typical for you to be anxious about tests?
 Do you have particular thoughts, or is it just kind of like your mind is blank and you're just anxious?
 So when you say "black out," do you – yeah, how do you mean "black out?"
 So is the scariness that at the moment you just feel like you're not in control?
 Well, when people turn, or groups turn their back on you that's really – that seems like a really big trigger.
 What is that like – is that – because you mention your mom can have a temper.
 What do they get angry about?
 It sounds like it's rampant in your mother's family.
 It's almost like a way of being, or this or the primary way of relating to each other.
 I think of, like, "Star Wars," and being pulled "to the dark side."
 You try to sort of do good and what's right, but then more of the dark side can be really, really strong.
 That's interesting, what's comforting about it?
 That you'd pass this on?
 Were you upset – you know, given how you feel about your grandmother, especially were you upset when he would spend a lot of time over there?
 And he couldn't drive you home?
 Just, she didn't want to?
 You wanted to enjoy?
 But you want – so where did you want to stay?
 From Rhode Island?
 And because he wasn't in Rhode Island, he was here?
 So, I'm sorry, I don't understand. They were up there and they took you back here?
 Right.
 Oh, I see. I see.
 You would be playing the baseball games.
 Did you feel left out?
 How do you mean?
 And you felt it was because of your weight?
 Why were you so overweight? Did you eat a lot? Did you have a slow metabolism?
 Yeah, that's what I was thinking about, like (inaudible).
 What about friends growing up, were you happy with sort of your friendship circle?
 For what?
 Are your brothers and sister like that too?
 Because you'd be letting go of the comfort?
 It sounds it.
 Well, being with her I imagine represented a whole adult life and your future.
 Which you're very scared of.
 You're very, very scared about it, so, you know, I feel – I imagine that as unpleasant it sounds like it can be at home, with people being quite negative.
 That there's some comfort in sort of not having to be on your own in this very adult life with someone that you're going to marry.
 Like what?
 Well, I guess maybe (inaudible) really need to stop.
 I guess one thing that maybe you can think about, and we can think about together is what it would take for you to embrace a more adult life.
 How to embrace it?
 Well, I mean, that's the question.
 Because right now, you're kind of living in limbo because, you know, it doesn't sound like you're okay with where you are living at home, and kind of not – and that kind of more a dependent existence, but the more independent adult existence is also really scary. So the question is like, what might you need or what do you – maybe even better, what are you looking for in order to be able to embrace that more adult life?
 Maybe that's a way of phrasing it.
 I'm sorry, go ahead.
 I see. Well, let's – I think maybe –
 (inaudible) a good question, but we do need to stop.
 So I will see you next week. And again, (inaudible) just Martin Luther King Day, that day –
 I'm not here.
 But I can see you later in the week if that works for you.
 Okay.
 That one day?
 Okay.
 So yeah, so Martin Luther King Day, I'm just not here that day.
 And this is a way's away, but I like to give people a heads up.
 That February the 13th, that week I'm not here the whole week.
 I'll be away.
 Okay. So very nice to see you again.
 And I'll see you next week.
 Next week's 2:40.
 Okay, you got it.
 Hello.
 Oh.
 Right.
 What is racial uplift?
 Okay. Gotcha.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
(00:03:47)
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
(00:05:50)
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Mm-hm.
 And it went up on her blog?
 Oh, okay.
(00:07:44)
 Okay.
 Mm-hm.
 Was relate her own choice of driving a car.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 It's like she's including in the title making claims about the affect the city has had on her when a fair amount of what she's describing has also to do with her own choices which not necessarily like bad or criticism deserving choices but they certainly bear on (inaudible 00:10:35).
 And she's acting like that's not at all an issue?
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. No. I get that. I guess the thing that's confusing me is like (pause) I would have thought it's the way that she's blaming the city (pause) and not taking account of her own choices which are a big part of the issue.
 But the (pause) problem I guess, I don't get ... I just don't understand how like (pause) I guess what you're describing is like some of her opportunities to make the kind of choices you have come from privilege.
 Like money, specifically.
 Sure.
 Right.
 (laugh)
(00:12:48)
 Right.
 It's a pretty diverse part of town.
 Yeah.
 Like both ... in lots of ways.
 Or lots of dimensions I would think.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Right. Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Right.
(00:14:24)
 I see.
 Right.
 Right. She's sort of proclaiming ... (pause)
 That ...
 Yeah.
 Think about it like (pause) it makes you irresponsible.
(pause)
 I see.
 I see.
 I see.
(00:16:19)
 Right.
 I see. Right she just like totally blaming it on count of like her own choices, her own privilege in a way that like (pause) seems almost intentionally naïve given what you know about her.
 Yeah. And angering?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
(00:18:36)
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Wait about (inaudible 00:19:54) blogger ripping you to shreds?
 Okay.
 Mm-hm.
 Wow.
 Gotcha. Yeah. That's how he is then.
 By shamming them?
 A great idea.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Wait. I'm sorry. (cross talk)
(00:24:00)
 I see.
 (cross talk) quite racist and ridiculous.
 Yeah.
 Yeah that's awful.
 Yeah that's really bad.
 You got to do.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. Sort of a danger of doing something like that (pause) it's sort of (pause) yeah.
 Stir things up. I mean as you say he's already stirred it up.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
(00:28:04)
 Yeah. I think you're saying that he is completely horrible.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 I see. Yeah, yeah.
 I see. Yeah. (inaudible  00:29:29).
 Right.
 Scruples?
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
 Sure. They never tell you for one thing.
 (inaudible  00:31:35) for another, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yup.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Sort of like trying to take it easy in a way?
 I think not put yourself out there and not ...
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. Like are you saying you worry about people at work seeing this stuff and what you make of it and counting against you?
 Okay.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Right.
(00:36:07)
(pause)
 Yeah. I might suppose that you have mixed feelings about wanting to. I understand.
 What would you like to say?
 (chuckle)
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
(00:37:38)
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 When you think about it how far do you let yourself go in thinking about it? I mean, in other words (pause) I can see like practically why wouldn't want to do it. But what I'm curious about like how much you start to feel bad or like there's no point in thinking about it that way, like ...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 I see. (pause) Sounds like it helps.
(00:41:09)
 (laugh)
 Mm-hm.
 I see.
 I see.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Well ... (pause) Seems like (pause) sort of being dramatic or careful or catching flies with honey (pause) are all well and good if like you're point ultimately is to try to be responded to in a certain way. But I mean what you'd really like to do now anyway ... again like do it. But like you're thinking about hitting back and this satisfaction of like ...
 I see.
 Oh, okay. Why should I bother taking the trouble to be careful ...
 And like be decent?
 If it didn't matter.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 I see.
 It's infuriating when people are completely overlooking the effort that you've made and it also puts them in a very bad light.
 Right.
 I see.
 I see. They're just (inaudible 00:47:39) on you.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right. I see. (pause) We're going to stop for now. (pause)
 Hi [PATIENT NAME].
 Okay, um, last time I saw you, your mom was coming to visit.
 She cannot.
 How come?
 Well and there's no one to be companion to?
 You mean the son and the father?
 Oh boy.
 I don't blame you, it's terrible what, so the son has an aneurysm and the father has a bad heart.
 Well how is you sister handling?
 Did you want to go to the psychiatric hospital?
 No.
 What hospital do you want to go to?
 Well [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] he wanted to put you in and you didn't want to go.
 Yeah but I cannot put you in [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Only in the psychiatric —
 No.
 Not crazy [PATIENT NAME], depressed.  Are you suicidal?
 Went to Burger King?
 Well how, how is it at your house, how's your, your niece doing?
 So your sister—in—law is okay?
 Okay.
 Well [PATIENT NAME] they lost their father, they lost their husband.
 But they're getting better, they're doing better.
 And, and, and yet you're not doing better.
 You taking your medicine okay?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And you, you made a contract with me that you won't hurt yourself.
 Good.
 Okay well I have a new medicine I want you to add.  The one that, it's a helper medicine to help the medicines that you're taking because your medicines need some help.  Before they were working good but now they're not working so good anymore.  Um, because people they go through grief if they lose a loved one but then they recover.  But you went through grief and you never recovered.
 No you have depression, that's what's wrong with you, you have depression and you know the, the depression takes control, you know, takes over.  So we —
 Need to give you medicine to get rid of the depression.
 Yeah because you're depressed.  Depressed people they withdraw like a wounded animal, they don't, they go into their den and they wait until their, until they get better or until they die.
 No we have to get you better.  We have to give you the new medicine.
 You know the old [PATIENT NAME] would have said, mom, you want to come, I go and I'll pick you up and then we come together, you know, she's in what, [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Now the old [PATIENT NAME] would have gotten a round trip ticket, gone to [DEIDENTIFIED] and picked her up and brought her here, you know, and —
 Well —
 The what?
 Shingles?
 I don't know.
 Oh you didn't, you never had Chicken Pox.
 Oh and that's why you cannot go.
 Oh.  That's why, okay, I understand.
 I don't know why it's still there, it should go away already.
 His doc, yeah, but you know the infectiousness goes away but sometimes the pain stays so if he has the pain it doesn't mean it's infectious.  You can go.
 Yeah.  It's called postherpetic neuralgia but they make good medicine for that.
 Yeah but, you know, I think you could go [PATIENT NAME].
 Like, you know, they can meet you at the airport with your mother, you don't have to go in the house, you can just meet your mother at the Airport and then go on the next plane home.
 But she will see you, you're going to take care of her.
 Well remember you have, you have that panic disorder.
 No one wants to do anything to you [PATIENT NAME].  But his new medicine will help you.  This new medicine is called Abilify and Abilify helps people not be afraid.
 Not to be scared.
 There is nobody that wants to shoot you or kill you [PATIENT NAME].  Why would they do that?
 There's no reason to kill you, you know, you're a good person.
 Right and no one, no one hates you, no one would want to hurt you.
 Yeah this medicine will give you courage, it will take away you're, you're fear.
 Yep, we call it paranoia, we, it will take away your paranoia.
 Yes.  And I want you to take two of them.
 Yes.
 With —
 With your other medicine, with your other medicine.  How do you take your other medicine?
 Okay then take it, it doesn't matter, you take it with your other medicine.  It doesn't matter with food or without food.
 You're taking the Xanax.
 Effexor.
 Well you can break it in half.
 Okay good.
 No one's going to hurt you.
 Maybe you need to go for a walk during the day.
 Good.
 Right now we need to get rid of your paranoia and we have to get you feeling peace in your mind because your mind is too troubled.
 Your mind is too full of depression and, and —
 This new medicine will help you.
 Okay but you're not going to hurt yourself?
 Okay.
 If you need to go to the hospital, you let me know.
 Well [DEIDENTIFIED] is not for psychiatric, it's only for medical.
 [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Hm.
 Well hopefully we'll get you, once you, you're going to go get this medicine today at the pharmacy?
 Which pharmacy do you go to?
 Okay so it's still open so you can still go.
 Well I, I can give you sample —
 You can start taking.
 But let me go get it.
 Okay here's a sample.  I'm going to give you seven pills so you can use it for two and a half days.
 Yeah because you're going to take one in the morning —
 Yeah because of your anxiety [PATIENT NAME].
 Okay so let's see you back in one month.
 But if you feel you have to come sooner, you let me know.
 You let me know if you go to the hospital with [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] but I think only if you have seizure or something, you know.
 Right then he took you to the hospital.
 Yep.
CG: Just my [INAUDIBLE].
 Well if you seizure you can, you have —
 No, no you can hurt somebody.
 I know [PATIENT NAME].
 I know but —
 It's dangerous.
 Okay.
 This medicine will make you feel like you have goals again and not be afraid.
 Okay?
 I remember when your father was alive you, you went to visit him.
 No matter what, you went to visit him.
 So this medicine will make you better, like when you were, like when your father was alive.
 And you can —
 Um—hum.
 He's the one with the aneurysm?
 Well —
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Okay so we'll see you back in one month.
 And I hope then we'll see a different [PATIENT NAME].
 Call me.
 Call me and we'll get you in, yeah.
 Well call me and we'll tell you to come, when to come.
 Okay?  Okay let's shut —
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
   Well, a week from tomorrow I could see you at 2:00.
   Monday, if you wish.
   And as far as changing the time, well, perhaps we can see how, uhum, it works out as it goes along.
   Or maybe assurance that I'm really listening?
   Why wouldn't I approve?
   So I guess you're more afraid than you are guilty.
   Uhum.
   When were you supposed to have said that?
   Well, our time's up.
 So he was asking you to tell him but you knew that he really didn't want to hear...
 Is that what you mean by problems are separate from each other? That he thinks something different is wrong with the marriage than you think is wrong with it? Okay. 00:03:22
 How did you feel about what he told you? 
 So, it sort of masked the way things are and it's a little good to have it out in the open?
 So, like that seems like progress to you or something just to get that out in the open. 
 So, you didn't want him to say let's stop seeing them all together, you just wanted to say that that's what happened here?
 It's okay to do that. That doesn't mean you're going to act on it...something like that? 00:09:07
 He was just kind of pushing you away and it didn't quite help?
 You had not masturbated for a month? Or you had?
 You had not. 
 Like that would just be one extra thing that would push you into it?
 That you come only when it's masturbation of some kind? 00:13:59
 It was almost like you were putting everything on that or something? That was the reason. 
 Not only that but you have to feel guilty about it because there's something wrong with it. 
 Are you saying like this is a new thing for you? That...to find all these new explanations for why your sexual things going on? So like always before it was like it was only masturbation (inaudible) and now there are all these other things that maybe could be made better. 
 So, now it's like that's opening up or something and you can see different places where things are wrong?
 And couldn't get him to talk about?
 (overlapping voices) I guess (inaudible) you're less sensitive than he is to...?
 You mean maybe you're not really getting into him or....maybe you're not really understanding him somehow; maybe it's just that you're too caught up inside your head or...? 00:21:10
 So, you hold things back but you know you hold them back but he doesn't know?
 So, if you really laid everything out on the table you would have to say let's separate but it seems like he's just beginning to make some progress and you don't want to disrupt that because it might turn out better and then you wouldn't have to separate.
 How does that fit together then? I mean, like, if...last week you were feeling like you were ready to separate but on the other hand, you're feeling like let's keep going. I mean, sort of have both...?
 So, it's like you might want to get out of the relationship now but the fact that being alone is holding you back? 
 It really became a reality. 00:27:16
 You mean to question yourself or question him or...?
 So, you're asking yourself how much do I understand him and how much is he letting out? Right? 00:29:03
 It's like always frustrating. It's like you always find it out when you can't talk about it. And, too, it's almost like you never got to know him or something, you know, like you were with him all those years and then these things keep popping out at funny times.
 Yeah, when you can't even talk about them properly with you; what's he doing talking to somebody else about that. 
 So you're feeling like it's not fair or something. I mean, he tells people, why shouldn't I be able to?
 (inaudible)
 Somehow...what he wanted all along was to work together with you somehow.
 You mean each of you getting the same things out of it individually?
 And you want that? 00:37:45
 Yeah, it's like the way it is, is that things don't get pulled together and to be able to do that, you have to put out a lot. 
 So you're not satisfied with it?
 But not for both of you. 
 And all of a sudden he had some too. 00:42:12
 Because all you get is that same thing? Is that what you're saying?
 So, is it that you don't know what to expect or that he's giving you so little all this time that you just don't know what you'd get? 
 So, you just don't know what's going on inside him. You don't know what feelings he has. He never gives you much to go on. 00:43:59
 Everything upsets him. 
 Yeah, so, it's like you just can't talk about your feelings with each other...just the feelings; like he can't get into that with you. 
 It doesn't help you to have him solving your problems because you want him to hear how you're feeling. 
 If he'd just tell you how he was feeling, that would be fine but to throw such a fit is kind of crazy. 
 Scary. (overlapping voices) sometimes he might get more upset and more violent.
 Yeah, it's real important for you not to have him behave that way. 
 It sounds like...since neither one you is really hearing how the other one feels kind of, that you get into these discussions about what would be good for the children and not good for the children and that's really not where it's at or something. I mean you're sitting there feeling scared and it's like you don't want him to do that; you want him to talk to you, for heaven's sake. And who knows what he's feeling; like we don't know but it's like when you get to that point it's already so far out of hand that all you can do is have these arguments that don't mean much or something. 
 Trying to get him to look at himself. 
 Like you're just blocked there. You don't know how he's feeling and he doesn't know how you're feeling and it's a mess. 00:51:44
 I don't understand the difference because it's like you're...making you uncomfortable because you're embarrassed in front of your friends or something and embarrasses you on top of that and...? 00:53:24
 (inaudible) 
 And you don't want to seem like a nagging bitch or something, you know, you want him to see how it's bad for him. 
 Which isn't any good either. 
 Have you tried just saying to him how badly it makes you feel?
 You know, he doesn't do that? He doesn't...there's nothing he owns, right?
 So it's never him, it's always something he's read kind of or....you never get the feeling that he's a real person....
 Analyze (overlapping voices) 
 He did that to you or something. 00:61:06
 Like you shouldn't do that with your friends. 
 Much less your wife.
 Like helping you avoid it. (overlapping voices) 
 Fire.
 It is...yeah, it's up to you. 
 This particular...I mean you're in the research program which is only individual for twenty sessions, which kind of gives you an out, in a way. I mean you could do twenty sessions and then, you know, since that was over, you could do something together if you wanted but, you know, the way this one thing is set up it's only individual. That's not saying we would stop you, it's just saying that's the form. 
 Oh, yeah. Sure. You would just have to go through the procedures of getting it arranged. Yeah, right. People here do marriage counseling. Although there is one complicating factor, which is that this center is going to close in the summer which I should tell you anyway, so I don't know how that would work...for whatever that's worth. But yes, people here do do that. 00:64:40
 Fold up your tents.
 (overlapping voices) I mean that's up to you. 
 See you next week. 
 So just as you were talking about it were you aware of any kind of like physical experience with this (inaudible).
 So you're feeling kind of a little agitated? [2:04]
 I noticed your foot moving as you were talking.
 Well I noticed as you were describing you know you're feeling about anger that you kind of had a little shortness of breath or you weren't breathing so deeply. And you know you were a little more kind of animated as you talked.
 Do you feel like that now as you were describing the situation?
 When doesn't that usually happen that you have that awareness of?
 Are you aware of doing that at all here when you're talking?
 You do or you don't recognize? [4:20]
 Sometimes I get the feeling that you're kind of rushing to get to things. And I don't think you've done that in awhile. I mean there are moments where you kind of go into that and then sort of slow down. You feel pressure to kind of say.
 So you're still having trouble sleeping?
 Is it consistent like across the (inaudible)?
 When do you start feeling tired? When is that period where you feel tired but it's too early for you to go to sleep yet? [7:06]
 And do you shift your sleep cycle on the weekends at all? Like do you stay up later or wake up later?
 What do you make of that?
 So this difficulty of sleeping has gotten worse over the last little while, right?
 Yeah.
 Since coming back from your vacation I think you had said.
 That's still just as bad or it's getting worse?
 One or 2 o'clock is your average per say for getting to sleep?
 So how many hours do you usually sleep?
 So you haven't been getting sleep but you haven't been able to sleep in the way you use to? Because of the - what you're doing with.
 I was wondering you know going back to where we started with today about your bringing in an incident that involved you getting angry what it was like for you. Have you been thinking about that over the course of the week?
 And so that helps you to actually get to sleep?
 It's weird. I have to say you know we only have a few minutes left but I feel like I - I feel like we're talking in this way that just doesn't - like we're not fully. Like I don't feel fully in the room with you today. And part of it may be that you know we started out late. But I - I just have this feeling that we're kind of - we touched on the anger piece. We've been touching on it in the last couple of sessions. And I know that that's a difficult area for you to kind of go into. It is for most people. And I'm wondering if that's what this about. If that's you know and. [14:45]
 Possibly. But I'm wondering if it's uncomfortable for you to really go back - like to talk in more detail about you know you're feelings of anger or what you've experienced over the course of the week. You know given our previous session where we talked a little more about your feelings towards your mother-in-law and you know Tony and.
 I guess I want to check in with you on the anger piece. And just to make sure that you don't feel pressured in any way to kind of act on it and say something directly to your mother-in-law. Because that certainly not the direction that I was going in. Just to check in with you. Is that how you were feeling or? [17:48]
 Actually what I struggle with is really experiencing your anger here. Regardless of how you choose to actually deal with it in terms of the - you know the relationships in your life. I hear you talking about it but I - it's like I don't experience it from you. And I'm wondering where it is. Like I sensed a little bit of it today and I imagine the reason that I don't experience it is because it's really scary for you or it's really uncomfortable for you or it's really difficult to go to that place.
And so I respect that. And at the same time I want to encourage you to explore that here in a safe kind of environment. And I understand that you might be confused about what that means at the same time.
 But it has nothing to do with you challenging your relationships outside of here or taking a more serious stance with anyone. Absolutely not.
 Yeah.
 Well we - we actually need to stop for today. But it you know it's - it's something that I would encourage you to sort of take more of a risk here kind of expressing feelings of anger. And I - I say that knowing that it's difficult because - for many reasons it's difficult. And so you'll just kind of see how it goes. But I don't you know want to leave you with the feeling of that you have to do anything else out of here.
 Because that's not my intentions.
 Alright?
 Okay.
 And you did express some - you did visibly look upset with the situation as you described it. And yeah.
 That's also difficult to do.
 Well we can talk more about what your concerns about how I would experience you maybe if you were to express some real feelings of anger - some real strong feelings of anger. You have expressed feelings of anger here. But you know we can talk a little bit more about that the next time.
 Okay?
 Yeah.
 I was supposed to get you some of those.
 This is session number 20. Yes.
 Do you?
 Okay. Let me make myself a note so I - I need to sign for next week. Okay. I will definitely do that. I'll just bill you next time.
 That's okay. I mean that happens. Unfortunately if I didn't have anyone after you know this session I would have extended this one. So.
 Okay.
 We'll have opportunities then I'm sure. Alright?
 Take care.
 Bye.
 How was your break?
 What did you all do?
 Is he home now?
 Because they were up at [DEIDENTIFIED].
 And did that -
 You, oh, you didn't go up there.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 How is he?
 Good.  Not too sick?
 I know that's pretty tough because he got chemo.  They're doing chemo?
 Any radiation or?
 Did you get your grades before you took off, uh, on your break?
 Um-hum.
 How'd they look?
 Did they.
 Very good.  How are you doing with your retention and concentration and -
 Any, uh, distractibility or?
 It's been better?  Organization and?
 Doing okay?  And you tell me about your worry,  I know that's always an issue.
 Um-hum.
 You hated that.  Yeah. [LAUGHING].
 Why was it so bad?
 Then you're, it's always an understatement with you.  A little anxiety.  A little anxiety for you would be how much for everybody else?
 Yeah.
 Lost your appetite too?
 And you get kind of depressed?
 Yeah.  And since you're back home you're a little better?
 I see your dad's not with you today what's he doing?
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Lost a lot of weight?
 Good.  How's your brother holding up?
 Um-hum.
 Does he talk to you much about your dad?
 Um-hum.
 So he did this years ago.  It's not really similar to about the school and the work as it is -
 Hm.
 This is his what year there?  How many years has he been there?
 Yeah, I know it had been a while.
 Yeah.
 It's not like him?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It, it is a [INAUDIBLE] towards his cancer.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Like you said, maybe he just needs some, uh, additional help just like your dad can be real determined to get to the cancer but he needs some help.  You know he still needs to go to the doctors and his [INAUDIBLE] and he needs the support of his family and needs a lot of help.  He can't do it on his own.
 Did you talk to [NAME OTHER] about this?
 Um-hum.  He'd be kind of negative on that idea I would imagine.
 You know you sound, uh, like your kind of stepping up and taking over some of dad's duties.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um, I'm not saying that's a bad thing.  You just have to recognize it.  You know you've got a new year coming next year too.  It's going to be hugely different for  you.
 A lot of changes in your family and you're letting yourself and that's not easy.  It isn't for somebody who doesn't like change.  And let's just keep them like they are.
 You'll have your attention and concentration and you've been getting your work done and pretty organized and your moods decent.  But you are eating better now?
 Glad you recognize that you weren't.  Did you lose much weight?
 Like how much?
 Um-hum.
 Your dad going to be home for a while?
 When does he have to go back for more treatments?
 Haven't heard?
 Yeah.
 That's good.
 All right, let's go get your mom and see what she's got to say to you, okay?  You've got school today, right?
 First day back.  Do they give you work to do over your break?
 Good, good.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 That's a change; at least you could talk about it?
 What do you mean aggressive?
 That's what you wanted him to do but at the same time you turned him off.
 Do you not want to have sex with him?
 But do you still want to be married?
 Well, sounds like sex is becoming much more than it is somehow. This incredible, complicated, full of trouble, you know, this thing that you are forced to do. It doesn't sound like you are getting any enjoyment or even willing it to happen.
 What do you mean? I don't understand what you mean by curiosity. Is that what you are feeling now? Like you have a lot of curiosity about it?
 What are you thinking?
 You have a lot of fantasies and they seem dirty somehow. That you should think about it.
 You just want to shut it out?
 In your fantasies?
 That seems like two separate things. One is the fantasy. It seems really all right to have fantasies. I mean everybody has them. People can have all kinds - perverted or not perverted. Everything. That's just human. It really is - to have those fantasies. There is nothing wrong with that.
 Are you talking about making love to him?
 So it kind of builds up and then all you have is fantasy?
 You are living with a man and getting turned on by him but not really sleeping with him? (8:56)
 How do you feel about making love with him?
 Specific things that he did that you didn't like?
 Is that still true? That there are things that turn you off?
 What particularly do you mean?
 When he is actually inside you, you are talking about, or before?
 So it is almost like he hurt you and you would really like him to be gentler? 
 Softer...
 It sounds like you don't like it much either?
 At the beginning you might have been ready to do it but then you get by-passed and then you are really not?
 And with all this accumulating in the flash of time...it didn't work - you are not getting anything out of it at all.
 You would really like it to be stopped but you don't know how to do it?
 But that is so far from what is happening.
 He doesn't want to hear what you need?
 Are you talking about sex now?
 He was putting out more it sounds like?
 If he changed and did things differently, you would feel better?
 But still you are saying something quite specific that really if he touched you differently it would be a whole different style of sex for you?
 You are practically being raped?
 It is not enough, you are saying. It really doesn't satisfy what you need.
 I get the feeling that you really are under an incredible amount of pressure. You are really suffering and you are just hanging on?
 There really is nothing. There is not love. There is not anything really?
 You have a long bond that has been formed over a number of years but that doesn't change the fact that you are unhappy right now.
 And a lot of pain.
 You have expected a lot of beautiful things to come out of this - your children and all the things husbands and wives are supposed to do with each other. So now here it is. There really isn't anything.
 It is almost like you really never gotten to know each other?
 I get the feeling you never let that sink in. There is so such pain. There are so many chances of being lonely if you had to give him up.
 How does that feel to you? Maybe that gives you a better chance of keeping him? (31:31)
 Like he is right? That you are about ready to find someone else?
 Doting on each other on one level and both of you understanding what is really going on with the other? That your marriage really is in crisis and neither one of you knows what to do about it?
 You have just slowly accumulated them and slowly begun to realize it?
 So that all turned (inaudible 37:09) out too?
 So what you keep saying is that it is not a very good life? On the one hand, it is something you want to keep but on the other hand it is really lousy?
 You really don't like yourself, sort of thing?
 For you, it bothers you. Things that you would really like to be doing - just for you?
 There is a feeling of needing to get yourself separated or needing to stand on your own feet as a person.
 Are you saying there is, in some sense, something you need for you that you haven't gotten and that is not necessarily the same as being selfish?
 As I hear you talking, it sounds like what you are saying is that you have just never taken the space for yourself to get together what you need and what you want. And that is also what you have been saying why you want to leave in this therapy instead of the therapy with Charlie. That ruminates in me. That sounds really right. And I want to say something like that is what we can look like here. (44:00)
 Even then you weren't a real person. You weren't enough that way?
 In a sense you have always to rely on somebody else - it left a pattern?
 I think I hear that. I think this therapy is for you - it really is for you. I mean, you can talk about Charlie but it really is for that. That is what you are here for and that is what we have spent time on - whatever that means.
 Because it was really hard for you to come - it was scary?
 That way it was something more than just you coming?
 So it's not like you are only going for him - it is more than that? You want to be able to take more responsibility on your own?
 Because you have to be responsible?
 Well I don't think of this as an obligation. I'm going to say that again - this is your therapy. This is for you. That means it can be whatever you need it to be.
 Actually you are saying that just sort of flipped in. You forgot that you were the one who started it in the first place.
 I don't you should think of this as something that is all your fault - that the marriage is all your fault - and that you are going to get cured and that the marriage will all be better. It is never all one person's fault. This is for you and this is your side of it and that is all.
 It is really putting him (inaudible 54:33 plane overhead!) and that is maybe the best way you can (inaudible 54:36 plane overhead!)
 But getting yourself together may mean, in fact, that you don't stay in the marriage. That's like a very possible thing. That seems not comfortable but something you better accept?
 There is too much pain for you? Too much emptiness?
 For him to say that to you it is pretty disgusting in a way? It is almost like saying...
 So now it really is like facing the things that you have half-known but never been able to say out loud?
 Even that is not worth it. That is just drained dry. How can you even try any more?
 Some kind of, just breaking out of this situation?
 But it sounds like you are just so frustrated with this that there has to be something that gives?
 And now here it is?
 We have to make a time.
 Which one do you want?
 Okay, 5:30 - that has to be a little later, is that okay?
 Even if you want to make it Monday or Wednesday too - those two days will be better.
 That would work out for me too really. Next week, we would have to change times. We may have to be juggling around for a while. For next week, we could do from 5:30 to 6:30. 
 Yeah.
 And then after that it could be earlier.
 Okay, see you next week.
 Thanks
 Uh huh. 
 (chuckle) 
 Yeah, yeah. 
 She never responded to any of that? 
 This is all over text? 
 (chuckles) what is going on that this is what you are texting each other? 
 But over a text? 
 Yeah it's like the SAP channel 
 Yeah. 
 (chuckles) 
 She might just have want to have a conversation without actually saying anything to you. 
 Because it's slippery
 Why? 
 I don't even know what you're saying to, to say whether it's wrong or not. I think that's where we have to back off and figure out what, what it is you're feeling. You know. I, I totally agree she's being aloof and weird. 
 Yeah, 
 So I wonder, if what you are feeling with her, on the one hand you are able to say this is probably about something bigger and deeper, is this is connected to what the bigger and deeper is.[00:13:01] In other words it's triggering some feeling in you about something old, that is actually happening with her, you're right, you are not making it up that she's this way, she's being that way. 
 It's confusing, cryptic, aloof, withdrawn, kind of cold. And you're left dangling out, kind of in the breeze, vulnerable. 
 You're left, you're being very honest and open and real with her. Not overly so, 
 But still out there, and she's not joining you there. Even if she were to say, I need to let you know, I'm having second thoughts about this
 That would actually be more honest and 
(crosstalking) 
 That's what you put your— what your reasoning about this is. It's not that if you were in a healthy place around this part of things, that it wouldn't tick you off. It, it is healthy to be bothered by somebody being so withdrawn and aloof. That's a normal response. But it sounds like it brings you to this place that sounds like it's a childhood place for you. Where you, like, your self esteem is back in gutter. [00:15:04]
 It turned you on yourself, so the self criticism, you start to criticize yourself, and it's not 'oh what's wrong with her'?
 What's the feeling? 
 What's the feeling? 
 You sound like you are so hungry for a real contact with someone. 
 (laughter) 
 (laughter) 
 So right now, why is, why add that piece. 
 Very, and that's what you sound so worried about being. Like even if you had spent the night being down and preoccupied with this, and interested still in fact at was happening, because I think you are worried about that being a sign of something being really wrong. I just, I think you are really past that. And so I wonder if you are saying it for my reassurance. 
 Yeah I was thinking of Samantha too
(crosstalking) 
 I also think you're picking up on something specific to you though that has to do with the feeling that, I don't know if you are aware of this or not, but like, you can cycle through a kind of a pattern and move out of it, and then think it's over and then the same pattern happens kind of like, a little like Groundhog's Day and I mean that in the, in the way that, it's like you don't have memory integrated of what happened last time. You know the feeling that this time it's different. Like with falling for someone. I think you are working on trying to remind yourself like what happened before, how is this different, how have things changed. Because it is hard to hold on to. You don't have inside you just the trust, it's different, this is different, and you just know that, and you know that I know that. You're trance (ph?) are working on figuring out how it's different, what's changing, how is this different than Samantha? If there's something similar, there's something familiar in it, then we want to actually get to know all about, and have it, you know take up as much of the time as you needed. [00:23:07] 
But it's also different, in intensity and you are reassuring yourself of that I think. Because it gets scary and you feel like it's exactly the same. (pause) 
 I would wonder if you are preoccupied with something that was missing when you were very young. You can just specifically use you time, just wanting warmth. 
 Wanting, wanting to know someone's interested, someone cares. 
 Here's the thing though, I don't actually think that, I don't think you are making it up either. Look, even in your boss, (pause) part of being a sensitive person in the world means that you are sensitive to the things that are there. It doesn't mean that you make things up that aren't there. You actually are exquisitely attuned to things that are there. So, your boss might have been in a bad mood, just like, this is, this is a real thing you are picking up on in this with Lucy. That's really there. It's how much it devastates you that, you know. [00:27:07]
 I, yeah. 
 But the problem is you do care. 
 It's going to take work. 
 What I think will be possible is for you to notice what you tune into in people that are in them. And not have it be all about you.
 And notice it, and even have it make you feel sad. 
 I don't think it's actually means. That's a sort of pejorative. 
 Yes, yes
 Yeah. As opposed to, your tough dad. 
Yeah, who actually was a really sensitive guy. 
 Well, and I also don't know that it's that hard to meet people like that either, because here's the thing of it. I think you've been drawn to people who have been explicitly aloof and withdrawn over the years. There's a pattern actually of finding people who, what happens is you take care of their minds. You are interested in their daily lives. You ask them lots of questions, they, they don't reciprocate. I don't think that's just the luck of the draw, I actually think that's, that's what your childhood experience probably was. Even though I don't know details yet, we haven't gone into the nitty gritty [00:32:08]
 That's what love is for you. As a child you didn't have a loving experience where your parents, your mother especially was totally interested in you. In how you think, in how you write, in how you draw, in how you, what you want to play with, how you are creative, just interested in you for your sake. So that that's what love is and then that's what you look for and want to find. My guess is, you have a kind of aloofness and down right criticism that we know of. So that what you know of as love is trying to win over the unwinnable mother. That's what love looks like. (pause) [00:32:50]
 Or even I don't know if putting this as a container of your feelings. As a place to kind of allow them to be and to have their fullest, in a way it's not self destructive and that can give you an experience for the night that helps you kind of talk it away. And feel manageable between sessions. 
 It's really interesting, the experience of life and how that would fit in with, the wish to win over whoever she or even he is, or an audience watching you, looking at you, being entertained by you. You know, and it's like kind of massive exposure to just being yourself and tolerating whatever comes. (pause) 
 I wonder if in a concrete way, talking about singing solo, is like thinking about, wanting to be at the place where you don't need to depend on other people anymore. 
 And it would be great if you could do that right now and to, sort, to tape things together in the interim. It might also be that that's also something that's going to come in time, as being really comfortable.
 You know [00:40:41]
 Well, I still have this feeling that you think like, what you are proposing to yourself is like you're just gonna muscle your way through and just do it, and then you will sort of, create yourself as a different person? I mean even when you are talking about this now, you say it's just not going to be this way, but we don't even know why, we don't know a lot of things about what's that way even in you. Do you hear me? It just closes down knowing more about it. Knowing more about why you care so much you know? [00:42:29]
 An outlet
 Are you worried that the sensitivity is going to sort of creep into your life, and sort of run the show 
 Some? Maybe that's you saying is this going to return to 2004 [00:43:20]
(crosstalking) 
 So one way to start thinking of those moments when they happen is that they are memories. They're not, what's happening right now. They are memories that your body has stored up, that are getting released by something. They are triggered by something in what's actually happening now. But there's something old that's being remembered. It doesn't have words yet, your body has it. I don't think it's going to run the show. I just think you are in a different place now Brian. I really feel confident about that. I don't think that means that you're not going to have a lot of intense feelings and you may, you know have a long hours on feeling that way one time. But as you keep reminding both of us, you are getting up, you're going to work, you have been taking increasingly, taking care of more and more things in your life. It hasn't been that things have started to lean. It might mean that something's you don't do for a little while. Like there might be certain things that you turn down because you just don't feel like it. And I don't, I don't think that's a bad, that's bringing you back to 2004. It actually be you need new space inside, or alone, or in here you don't want to put on the happy face when you are in a bad mood. There's nothing wrong with that. [00:45:03] You know, we'll keep an eye on it, if it starts to feel like it's too destabilizing. I just think that you've come a very, very long way, and so far, as you've been doing this process, you've only in some ways keep organizing and structuring things more and more in your life, not less. (pause) One of the things that happens is I think as you have more to learn, it oddly organizes you more in your present life. Because it sort of releases the old wishes, that would keep you stuck. You get more on in your reality life right now. Even though you might be feeling more pain (pause) 
 Where are you? What are you feeling now? 
 You're starting
 You're starting to look really sad. 
 That's what, now here we have something really interesting. I'm so glad you said this. On the one hand someone doesn't see what's going on inside you, and they are self centered, right. They are preoccupied with themselves, they are not reaching out they are not caring for you. On the other hand, if they see and they know and they inquire, you feel really uncomfortable about having been seen. [00:47:07]
 So does it feel humiliating. 
 Yeah
 There's a lot of that
 It feels like a criticism I think, 
 Yeah and I think it's, if you've had an upbringing where that kind of observation is a criticism, it would make you feel like "no shit" you know lay off me. Right. If you had an upbringing where that meant, wow my mom is seeing me and would feel holding and caring and she noticed and now I get to burst into tears and go run give a hug, you know. That that would feel really, really different, it would just feel loving, somebody cares, somebody sees, somebody's actually helping me find my affective state that I'm having trouble articulating and it would open things up. I hear you say it doesn't 'feel that way right now. 
 It feels almost objectifying. 
 Okay, I didn't stop at the bank, so can I do it on Monday can I, 
 Yes. 
 You too. 
 So, how you feeling?
 Good, what do you think turned things around, do you know?
 Okay.
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh. 
 So you took of them about what time?
 Okay.
 Okay, how long ago did you stop it?
 Yeah, that was about two weeks ago, so you stopped it after that appointment?
 Okay. 
 Okay.
 Okay, and [PATIENT NAME] so you just have to be real careful because I think sometimes, before when you stopped this it was a few weeks later and then you started feeling crumby again.
 So if you start feeling bad let me know, will you? Because I don’t want you to go backwards. 
 Okay. So you think taking those two Klonopin last night made the difference?
 Okay. 
 All right. 
 Okay, this was just last night? Your [INAUDIBLE]?
 Okay. 
 Okay, okay, but today you don’t feel so bad?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. 
 Did you take Ambien also?
 Okay. 
 And you’re sleeping fine without it?
 Okay, that’s great. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Good. 
 Yes. 
 Okay. 
 Okay, good. 
 So you take 30 in the morning and that’s it? 
 Okay and I’m sorry, you said how often? Maybe one day a week?
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 Well, and you’re off the Zyprexa. The Zyprexa could have been…
 Triggering some of that possibly. 
 Okay. 
 Okay, okay. So your appetite’s normal, though, at this point, you would say?
 And how’s your weight doing, do you know?
 Okay.
 Okay, good. 
 Okay. 
 Good. 
 Of the Adderall?
 Okay. 
 Huh.
 Uh-huh. 
 I am suspicious that that was maybe what was causing the cravings without the... 
 Okay.
 Oh, good. 
 Okay, that’s encouraging though. How’s your energy, excuse me, energy level during the day?
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 And you’re not having days where your energy is excessively high?
 Okay, or… 
 Oh boy. Yeah, that may be a little too much for your size. 
 How much do you weigh, you think?
 So 60 would be absolutely the maximum we want to go to and if we can…
 Okay. 
 Okay. So most days you’re sleeping okay if you don’t take that much?
 Okay.
 Okay, excellent, and that’s without Ambien. 
 Good. 
 Oh, okay, because you’re groggy in the morning, yeah, that’s understandable. 
 Probably. 
 Yeah, if you take medicine that late at night it will be hard. Any problems with racing thoughts, your mind going very fast?
 Okay. 
 Okay.
 Okay. 
 Still different. 
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 So you would jump from one thing to another?
 Okay.
 Okay. 
 Okay, I understand. 
 Okay, what about, thinking about manic symptoms, any excessive spending, increased sex drive? Driving faster?
 Nothing, okay, okay. What about any panic attacks lately?
 When you got real anxious, before you took the extra Klonopin. 
 Okay and did it feel more like depression or anxiety or both? 
 Okay. 
 Okay. And that’s when you got your period, was last Monday or Tuesday?
 And when was that that you started the pill?
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 Well, that could be a lot of things, even the Lexapro can throw off your cycle. 
 Lexapro can do that also. 
 So that could be the Lexapro. If the Effexor works well, we might even back off Lexapro to see if it will get rid of the hot flashes and your period might become more regular and being on the pill may help that too?
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 How long did that last for?
 Okay.
 Okay. 
 It’s possible it could have been. 
 And you felt better. 
 Okay and the Adderall may be suppressing your appetite and your blood sugar may be dropping. So, we’ll have to watch that. Some people also have to force themselves to eat a little bit, at least. 
 Okay, that’s good. 
 Okay. 
 Okay.
 Huh? Okay.
 Okay. 
 Okay, you just weren’t in a good place. 
 Okay. 
 Okay. Well, [PATIENT NAME], I think there are so many variables right now, too, I mean you started the pill, stopped Zyprexa. The Klonopin, you may be needing a little bit more of it, it sounds like just from the effects from yesterday, probably what we ought to do is decide how much Klonopin for you take. There are a couple options…
 Yeah and you were just taking, were you taking one twice a day or were you taking one in the morning?
 Right.
 Right. 
 Right. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah, well, it maybe you just needed a little bit more because of the other changes, with the pill and all.
 So what we might do is still stick with one in the morning, but have you, give you the option if you need at night to go ahead and take one or two at night, too.
 But not do it everyday because if you do it everyday your body’s going get used to it. 
 But if you don’t do it everyday and you don’t need it everyday, when you do take it, it will be more effective. 
 Does that make sense?
 Wound you be okay with that?
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh, okay, let me get you a new one then, with the directions to… 
 Good. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh. It may not have…
 It may not have been that. It may have been more, again, just all the changes you’re going through right, you know, with getting on the estrogen, the birth control pills, the Zyprexa leaving your system, which takes about a week and then another week to feel the effects of that. 
 Well, I mean, you could. I mean your OB…
 Yeah, you’re real young, how old are you?
 Yeah, you’re really young, I mean it would be very unusual for you to be like perimenopausal or anything like that. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah, well sometimes your hormones can be normal, but you still can be affected by your period too and for some women to be on certain kinds of medicines, like Lexapro, usually one that helps, it will reduce sort of the PMS type symptoms. 
 But you’re already on that, so…
 Okay, so it’s not premenstrual, it’s menstrual changes, okay. 
 Well, I think right now, I mean, we can certainly do that too, we might want to give it a few weeks or even a month to kind of get you, see if we can you evened out a little bit. 
 If the pill starts to again regulate things a little bit. Also, let’s go ahead and stay on the higher dose of Effexor if that’s okay with you?
 It will just give you a little bit more support from an antidepressant standpoint. 
 And it also has antianxiety properties, Effexor does. So, it could help with both of those, which would mean in the long run you might be able to use less Klonopin and maybe eventually less Lexapro too. Is there anything new particularly stressful going on right now?
 Okay.
 What kind of changes?
 Okay. 
 Okay, good. 
 Yeah. 
 Okay.
 Yeah, that would be another big change.
 Good. 
 Oh, you are?
 For how long?
 Just going to visit family?
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh, are you gonna be staying with your parents?
 Okay, and that’s always a little stressful being… 
 Oh, good, go see friends and things.
 Good. 
 Are you still looking for work in [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Okay. 
 And your house is still on the market?
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Okay, good, so you’re staying plenty busy. 
 Good, I think that’s important. 
 Okay. Trying? It sounds like it’s hard. 
 Okay. 
 Yeah, well hopefully… 
 Well, [PATIENT NAME], my hope is that, it doesn’t mean you’ll never work, maybe you can just take some time off just to kind of get stabilized. I mean, do you want to go back to work at some point then too?
 Okay. 
 Good, because  you know of one things about bipolar disorder is even when a person is not going through new changes at the time, it still takes months for people to kind of stabilize. 
 Yeah. 
 Well, the stress would start to cause, yeah, more problems and it might cause you to have mood swings or who knows. 
 Okay.
 Good. 
 Yeah, it sounds like your doing better, that’s encouraging. 
 Well, and again it could be your period, it could be starting the estrogen that can cause mood changes in woman and could also be coming of Zyprexa, it could be a combination of the three, okay. 
 You know, and again, I don’t know enough about estrogens to know, I know some prefer naturals and some prefer synthetic. 
 Okay, well I would trust…
 Okay. Well what do you think about leaving the medicines the way they are with the increased dose of Effexor, off the Zyprexa and then using the extra Klonopin at night if you need it? Let you go to Miami and relax for a week, get away from the cold and snow and maybe check back in when you get back and see how things are going? Does that sound all right?
 Yeah.
 I agree. Let’s see, what works here. Anything else you want to talk about?
 Yes. 
 Well, it could be doing a couple things, you know, it helps with sleep, it can help with anxiety.
 It is a small dose, but I have some folks that take it as a mood stabilizer for bipolar disorder and they only need like a 100 mg.
 Or sometimes even a little bit less, so, I mean the only way to know if it’s doing anything or not would be stop it and see if things get worse, which I don’t want to do. 
 No. 
 Yes.
 For anxiety? Yes, you certainly could take…
 Another, I mean, you’re not anywhere near the maximum dose so you could take another couple during the day if you need it
 No it’s not, the only risk is, again, it might make you tired. But, no, you can take a couple during the day if you need them for anxiety, okay? That’s not a problem at all. 
 Of Seroquel?
 Probably nothing from one dose. Most people don’t notice a big difference. If you start missing two or three then your blood level could drop enough that you could start having mood swings again. 
 Uh-huh.
 It’s good if you don’t miss a dose, but [PATIENT NAME] don’t panic if you miss a day because for most people, missing one day doesn’t cause them to feel any differently, it’s only if they miss two or three days in a week, then they start noticing, yeah I’m starting to feel a little bit more labile and their mood more up and down.
 So. 
 Yeah, that’s a good question. So, let’s see, you’re leaving when?
 Oh, tomorrow and you’ll be gone until about…
 Monday, [DATE].
 So if we could get together maybe sometime next week it would be good. 
 What about, oh my goodness, would three o’clock next Friday work, which is [DATE]?
 Okay. I’ll put it on a card for you. Do you want a card?
 Oh, man, does everything doesn’t it?
 Yes. 
 At 3 p.m. 
 That’s okay. 
 I understand that’s not a problem. 
 Good. Okay, [PATIENT NAME], so the only thing I’m a little nervous about is I think last time I stopped the Zyprexa you started having a little bit more fluctuation in your mood. 
 I’m hoping the Depakote and Seroquel will prevent that from happening.
 But even if you’re in [DEIDENTIFIED] and you start feeling, you know, worse you might… 
 That’s fine or call me. Yeah, you might take it with you as a back-up and then call me if you have any problems, but, I mean if you have one bad day, I mean we all can have a bad day. 
 It’s a pretty low dose, but it’s enough for some people. 
 So, I’m hoping you won’t need it, but if you do, I don’t want you to slip backwards. So…
 If you have any problems just call me okay?
 And then, whoops…
 And I think that’s probably one that is doing it, that’s the one that’s notorious for increasing appetite. 
 Yeah, well good. Here’s the prescription for Clonazepam, Klonopin I wrote for 90. 
 Oh, yes. Let me get you, let me write for the 75 mg. 
 The 150s?
 Why don’t I just write for the 75s and write for three of them a day. I think it will be cheaper probably than taking one. 
 Let’s see, are yours going through insurance or are you paying for it on your own?
 It will be insurance. 
 Okay, I think it’s cheaper probably if we go with the 75s…
 And do three a day then if we do two prescriptions for one, the 150 and one for 75s. 
 I doubt it, not usually with one dose. 
 Maybe the Klonopin, it might have been it. 
 It’s kind of broke the cycle. 
 Yeah, that’s the only difference really…
 Yeah, maybe, it’s just a, I was going to say a good night’s rest, but you’ve been sleeping okay. 
 Okay. 
 All right?
 So, have a great trip. 
 Like I said, if you need anything call me. 
 Enjoy the warm. All right. 
 Yeah, okay. Bye-bye.
 Have you been successful at working six hours the days you’re supposed to or whatever we’re doing?
 You have?
 Medically?
 Personally or -
 Really, what kind of -
 Oh for mold.
 Yeah.
 I mean are you on things still or no?
 Yeah.
 I thought you were being resistant to take the Tindamax.
 No.
 No, meaning -
  Different -
 Your questioning them but they think you’ve developed a resistance to the -
PT : Diflucan. So now she’s doing research to see what else they can give me.
DR : I never heard of that. People develop resistance to that?
PT : Yeah, this is, this is, I mean, it’s just something that’s just bizarre and I basically forced myself, as you know, [PHYSICIAN NAME] picked myself up -
DR : Uh-huh.
PT : I mean in many ways just to [INAUDIBLE] keep a roof over my head.
DR : Yeah, it’s been pretty amazing. So what happened with the, they were fine with your hours?
PT : No.
DR : They’re not fine with your hours?
PT : Um, they want to put a stake in the ground because, you know, I told you last time I was here, my counterpart left going to another assignment, my boss and I are taking care of over five thousand employees.
DR : Your boss wants to put a stake in the ground?
PT : Yeah, so -
DR : Tough shit. I mean what are they going to do, fire you?
 Because you’re medically ill?
 No, you get paid like for the hours that you -
 No, but you don’t even get, I mean you work more hours than you get paid for anyway.
 Yeah.
 Um -
 What kind of stake?
 What did she say? You have to be full time?
 Full time.
 She’s not, yeah, that will just [INAUDIBLE]
 Uh-huh.
 What did [NAME OTHER] say when you talked with her?
 Crazy to be working this much?
 Yes. 
 Now if we ramp up like an hour a week, I don’t know, would that be, I mean if you, if there is some kind of a plan where the end point is forty hours a week and it’s inviting would that shut her up or is she going to complain that it’s too long, you know, I mean right now, two, four, you’re thirteen hours under forty a week.
 Um -
 This past week?
 Did you tell them that or no?
 Are you getting paid for that?
 All right and how did that -
 And, I mean did you go in yesterday?
 Who picked you up?
 Oh, oh, oh, after, yeah, yeah. All right. So it’s working, this -
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 At work.
 All right, so what if we did this. If we said this week and next week you work six hours a day.
 To do, oh - she is to remain on six hours of work, oh, six and five, five and six. Okay. So -
 All right. So [DATE]. [INAUDIBLE] before our next evaluation on [DATE], so basically you want me to start on this Monday the [DATE]?
 And what do you want to do? Do you want to do that you can do six hours a day and say, I don’t know, then you want to add a seventh hour on Monday and Friday? Something like that?
 So I’ll say you can increase hours to six per day, even though you already have more or less, so by [DATE], we’ll say on [DATE] to increase hours to seven on Monday and Friday and six Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and then on [DATE], to increase hours to seven on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and six on Tuesday and Thursday. And then, that’s [DATE], so in April, then like on [DATE] -
NR: Did it just start abruptly?
 Monday through Friday.
 All right. So let’s do this. I just looked through this. I did the work plan to get you up to full time by [DATE]. 
 Yeah, well then can fuss at me. You can go faster if you need to but, um, you know, I don’t, I don’t want it to backfire. I don’t want you, you know, absolutely you can’t travel, that will screw everything up.Yes, yes. Thank you, bye.
NR: Thank you for letting me [INAUDIBLE] and I hope you feel better. Hope that works out for you.
 All right, we’ll see you [NAME OTHER]. Okay, um we’ll see. This is what I want to do. Okay, on Monday [DATE] you can increase your hours to six a day every day. On [DATE] increase your hours to seven on Monday and Friday, six Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. These are two week intervals. On [DATE] increase hours to seven Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and six on Tuesday, Thursday. On [DATE] increase to seven hours Monday through Friday. On [DATE] eight hours Monday, seven hours Tuesday through Friday and a week later [DATE], eight hours Monday and Friday, seven Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Two weeks later, [DATE] eight hours Monday, Wednesday, Friday, seven Tuesday, Thursday. [DATE] eight hours a day, that’s like three weeks later. The patient may not travel at all, this will significantly set her back and impair her ability to work the hours specified above. Now, you know, you may go faster, it just depends but you don’t want to, um, you know, you can try slightly before, you can go up a little like you are now but I’d be careful. I mean what’s the difference if you work seven hours or eight hours. I mean if you’re building up and you have a plan, it may be okay. So, anyway, well let’s see what happens with this stuff with the, you know, when they’re checking your house and thoughts about the organisms and stuff. All right. So right now, you’re not really using the Remeron, you’re just doing the Cymbalta. You’re doing thirty twice a day?
 And then, you should have refills still.
 And then what about the Seroquel?
 You’re not taking it?
 All right. Okay, you have some, so that’s good. So I guess we’ll see you in like a month or so, right, that’s what we’ve been doing?
 Is that okay?
 You’re not sure that it’s going anywhere positive or useful?
 I mean did you talk specifically to her about where it’s going or what your goals are or - yes, no?
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, I would say, maybe you should. That’s a good idea. I mean it may be very uncomfortable to do that but I would think that’s the best and if you feel that it’s not helping or you can’t get into some positive direction, I can have you maybe see somebody else that’s more of a kick-you-in-the-backside kind of person. You know, I mean, but not to force you to do things but to sort of maybe more forcefully get you to see things and what is this decision you have to make, what are the positive, what are the negative, what do you have to give up to make a decision, to work full time what do you have to do, what can’t you do without being dead and work full time, how do you get rid of those things without, you know, and still have a house and a family and a husband and, you know, I mean is that the kind of thing you’re -
 To some extent.
 Well, that is a good point. Who wouldn’t be? You were for a while, right? I mean you’re not now. I mean, it might feel like you’re -
 Next to losing it every minute but -
 But you’re, you’re coherent and, you know, you’re not like psychotic like, you know, not that you were, well I mean, I think that with all the stuff going on and everybody pushing you into the corner telling you you were crazy, you know, more or less, you felt that way and you really, you know, you were having a hard time struggling, keep a grasp on reality, you know, what was really happening to you, you know, having second thoughts about what you were imagining. Did you do this to yourself, you know, stuff like that and I think you know somewhat differently now.
 Right, I mean -
 No, other people, yeah. But not just -
 Right.
 You keep it all bottled up and then -
 It basically ate away whatever, yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 I mean part of that is - what do you have to do to survive. You can’t keep putting on this show, a show, you know, you can’t look, you know, good and run around -
 Look like you feel good, um, you know, and be dying inside.
 Well, yeah, so how do you confront those things that are eating you up inside? Like how do you, how can you be comfortable going up to your boss and telling her to go F herself if that’s what you need to do -
 Not that you would do that, okay, because what you don’t want to do is all the sudden, you know, and this is a great fear of a lot of people, once a little bit comes out, man there’s no control, and I’m going to be telling people to go screw themselves and, you know, that’s not likely to happen in your case but I don’t know if that’s one of the fears you have. It’s one that commonly is.
 Yeah you know there will be a Pandora’s box to some extent because you’re going to have to reevaluate your relationship with everybody because people, I mean, you are the kind of person that you have your way of doing things but people will come and ask you for things and they’ll ask you for help until they suck the life out of you and you have nothing left. All right. You’re going to have to reevaluate your relationship with various people to protect yourself. I mean, obviously, when you look sick and you are sick, people tend not to ask you so many things but as you are more functional and look better, then you’re going to have to get a grip on that.
 Are you going to sleep okay?
 All right. Did we ever talk about Provigil?
 Some medication, let’s do that next time.
 It’s this stuff - um, do you have tr- you don’t have any trouble, you sometimes have trouble falling asleep?
 I mean in the morning, it’s like you’re coming back from the dead almost.
 Yeah, I mean it is and you’re going to have it lingering. I mean we do have to figure out how to deal with it better. All right.
 Tell me what you think because if this doesn’t work out, I may want you to see [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]. I mean he’s my partner but he does a lot of work with anxiety and cognitive behavioral stuff, a lot of experience. He’s the only person here that [INAUDIBLE] than I am. We’ve had a lot of experience. [NAME OTHER] the nurse practitioner, [INAUDIBLE] but therapy-wise.
 No. Can’t you tell? She’s going to be doing management stuff. Oh she’s great. She’s really nice. All right, so let me - 
 This is client 0518-014. Session number 1.
 Yeah, you do too. I've been around here (inaudible 0:30) for a long time.
 About being in therapy?
 A-ha.
 Yeah, some kind of a decision to turn around and face into something.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And not having enough to do anything much except to keep your head above water too.
 And intuitively if you let go, you just get flooded with being depressed.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Just to let go.
 Yeah, because you can't talk to me unless I already have all the background, yeah.
 It is just very disappointing not to have been able to do it then.
 Well, I guess I don't usually feel like I have to be filled in with all the details. Whatever you think I need to know to get the right idea.
 Because you had been looking forward to it.
 And you wanted to for such a long time.
 Mmm-hmm. 0:05:59.3
 And you were on the outside.
 Yeah.
 You know, being able to see how, like, very easily it could make you fell just crappy about yourself. Not letting that happen but still...
 Yeah.
 You've been written off.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Yeah, yeah. It was your place and now you are losing it.
 Alright, so you aren't going to too many places. You are just being cast out into...
 They want you to - not because you want to go.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So you are left feeling angry and resigned - just scared I guess.
 Yeah.
 Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.
 I know - it is a lousy situation.
 But you can't...
 You feel warmed the moment.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Mmm-hmm.
 A-ha.
 Yeah. First they do it to you and then they mind because you react to it. 
 Mmm-hmm.
 Not your being insecure and bringing it on yourself or something.
 They haven't really looked.
 You can't just beat on their door. It isn't going to change their mind or anything. It sort of leaves you not one of them; not really understanding why. 
 It was such a good feeling at the time.
 It's hard to imagine yourself with anyone else, focusing anywhere else because you have been turned towards them.
 Like being in the provinces instead of being in the capital. 0:23:56.9
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Partly, they are good people. They are the kind of people you like - they are the kind of people you admire. If you met them again next week, you would think, 'Gee, these people are just wonderful." Like, so what do you do?
 Yeah. 0:26:57.9
 Walking in and facing them not wanting you. How you walk in typically and disturb anything.
 Something is going through my mind: I am thinking, "Jesus, this girl is talking some distant layers; she has all these problems but she doesn't really sound involved.
 I don't think so necessarily - I didn't meant to pin that on you.
 You have to move to something new. 0:29:51.0
 Yeah, the first time, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah - after all of this.
 Right, and you'd like to be (inaudible 31:34) for your test.
 It's hard to want to get that 100, even aside from functioning.
 So that all makes you feel, I don't know, slightly funny: what should you be saying and how should you be doing them.
 Yeah, you don't want be to see you as a professional victim person.
 Mmm-hmm. 
 It does make you have doubts.
 To feel like you're together!
 There is something in you that is fairly convinced that you are together though. 
 Not naturally insecure.
 Naturally timid.
 It's just that room.
 Yeah. You're really happy there.
 It's not painful. 0:36:56.1
 You have lost your family.
 So there it is. 0:39:34.3
 It would make you feel better.
 There's something to her after all.
 There's no way back in.
 And to their liking.
 Make yourself believe that you still have something. 
 People come there.
 Something else struck me about what you said: you've been proud to live there too.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah. There is something crappy about it.
 Mmm-hmm.
 The whole status thing; the special thing; and the "better than" thing.
 Yeah.
 To belong to the most special people.
 Yeah - I think now I do. You're in a place where what's interesting and important is happening - you're not missing something.
 It's down there - you're having to step down. 0:48:03.5
 Down there; you feel like you are having to take a step down.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. You don't like the sound of that - it sounds snobby or something.
 Oh, like you are letting them think that you respect them.
 Oh, deceiving them that you're...yeah.
 That is a different perspective. It seems right - natural. Instead of...you are sort of letting yourself get defined.
 Letting you...feeling bad about yourself Because they see it that way.
 A-ha. 
 Yeah, (inaudible 52:16) paying off there.
 I don't know where I got this from - something about the way you are talking to me - you are also confused.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you seem to be seeking a way.
 We are see each other for 10 sessions, twice a week. I may be away for a week at Christmas.
 Kansas City.
 Mmm-hmm.
 Yeah. Next Monday.
 (Chuckles)
 Oh thanks
 My mother did.
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible 57:25)
 It's kind of funny: what we're doing right now is sort of accepting each other. You're saying, "I'm glad to have you." And I'm saying, "I'm glad to have her."
 I'm free all week essentially. You might want to fit me in around your exams or something.
 I'm going away Monday and I won't be back until a week from Wednesday. 1:00:03.3
 We can make one appointment for next week and maybe one appointment for late, eh, the week of new year's.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Okay, four o'clock?
 Okay.
 Here - just here.
 I still am - (inaudible 60:51) School. (Inaudible 60:56) too.
 Oh yeah, I know Emma, sure.
 Oh yeah.
 I haven't seen Emma for a long time. She's (inaudible 61:40)
 Oh really?
 Do you know what to do with that?
 There is a box behind the glass window downstairs and you just stick them in the box.
 Yes, right. 1:02:13.5
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yep.
 Do you need a pen?
 Sure. I also, you also will have a small balance that I have not given you a bill for from the period between, I think, when your insurance kicked in and when we started recording.
 I have the date that we started recording because you signed the...
 ...form and then from then on you're good but...
 I've got to look. I think... I'll have to look. My vague guess would be between two and four hundred bucks. [00:01:03]
 Right.
 Yeah. But I will, I can look at that this weekend.
 Thanks.
 Yeah.
 Sure. You're hope is that they'd make an offer, you'd accept or negotiate and accept and then leave partners. [00:04:00]
 Right.
 And you continue living up here.
 Well... Usually this means or this happens when you're upset.
 I guess I put it that way because you don't describe it in kind of explicitly emotional terms. Although, I imagine that... [00:09:21]
 What are the internal (inaudible at 00:10:07]
 (LAUGHTER) You have some sort of tone which I can't quite put my finger on. (PAUSE) I guess I feel a little like you're saying, "Duh." [00:11:05]
 (LAUGHTER)
 (inaudible at 00:11:27)
 I guess...
 Maybe we mean somewhat different things. Often when you get this way, you've been hurt and you're angry.
 That would be the first time...
 ...at least that we've looked at closely.
 I guess I'm imagining something like, you know, the process with the folks in New York as, as you said, dragging it on. I imagine you feel a bit left hanging. Not that they backed out but that... [00:13:07]
 Oh.
 (inaudible at 00:13:55) I was imagining as I think about it that, you know, as much as is reasonable at one level that they'd be taking this long to make you an offer at another level you're really eager for it so you can move on. [00:14:15]
 He'll be.
 Zing! I mean...
 Oh. Oh. How so? I misunderstood.
 Yeah.
 I think you're awfully frustrated.
 The impression I get is more of you unconsciously and in a way that feels like it's instead being done to you (PAUSE) is of you, like, pushing things away. What, you know, projects you could be thinking of or working on at work, recollections of what you've been talking about here... [00:21:55]
 Right. I see it kind of the other way around that in a way that feels like it's being done to you... Like you feel as though you're trying to stick it to you, stick it to yourself and there's some force that's getting in the way. And what I'm saying is I think you are unconsciously are that force and are actively pushing things away. Not so much that you kind of don't know how in that, you know, you sort of don't have some understanding or capacity to... [00:23:01]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (inaudible)
 I think I follow (inaudible at 00:25:27)
 Um.
 No I think I follow what you're saying. [00:27:01]
 I guess I also feel like this is kind of always where get when you're stuck.
 Sort of back to the, "Well, the primary issue is that there's this work I could be doing and I just can't do it." You know, yeah, sure, I guess we could talk about why or we think about it as, you know, my pushing it away or having trouble sticking to...
 ...it or owning it or this stuff. But the main thing is, "I can't do the work and it feels like, you know what? I'm stuck. And, and really nothing I can do about it."
 And, you know, that's really the thing.
 Yeah. That's how you always say it when you feel like this. (LAUGHTER)
 I'm sorry. I don't mean to be like... But...
 But sort of... [00:28:00]
 No, no, this is like... (PAUSE)
 I'm... (LAUGHTER) I'm trying to think of a metaphor that (PAUSE) applies. So... (LAUGHTER) The way it looks to me is like this. It's like, if I was a different kind of doctor, like you came in with some with some sort of a limp and a pain in your knee or something.
 And...
 And you say, "Gee Doc. You know, I'm walking around my leg hurts and I'm kind of limping and it's uncomfortable and I can't get places as fast and I can't do what I need to do and it can be distracting and, you know, makes me worry about other things in my health." And, and we've sort of, you know, spent a bunch of time. Like we did some MRIs and some x-rays and, you know, we, we carefully like... This is where the, you know, metaphor in away falls apart but humor me and I'll show you what I mean. You know, looked at, "Oh yeah. So, you know, there's some weakness in this tendon. Like, look at this ligament over here. You know, this congenital thing there and, you know, from the way you, from this old injury this happened and see, so when you walk, it looks like this. And, you know, actually, it turns out that sort of the way you carry yourself or the kind of shoes you're wearing or whatever. You know, the way, you know, the gait that you're used to contributes to this thing as well as these other factors and, you know... [00:30:03]
And then you know, oftentimes (inaudible at 00:30:07) "Okay so if I change my gait and my shoes and I, I understand this way. You know, then it's not so frustrating and I can see how, you know, part of it's my history and part of it's things I'm doing and, you know, Yeah. I'm kind of in there. It makes a whole lot more sense." And then you come in the next week and say, "Doc, you know what? My knee hurts and I have this limp and I don't know what's going on. But what I'm saying is, you know, it's distracting and it's frustrating and I can't get places as fast and, and, you know, I can't do things I need to do." And but I think, I know. Remember we were talking like we identified all this stuff and whys and wherefores and things, you know, ways. And you're like, "Yeah, I know about that. Okay. I guess so but I think you're missing the point Doc." [00:30:59]
"The point is my leg hurts and when I try to walk places, you know, I can't go as fast and it's uncomfortable and distracting and I need to be getting things done but I, I can't work in the same way." That's, that's, that's how this seems. (LAUGHTER) To me, I guess...
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 No. No. What I'm saying...
 Okay no, no, then I haven't been clear.
 What I am struck by is (PAUSE) the extent to which you forget or lose touch with...
 I think you're kind of in the part of yourself. Remember how (inaudible) a few weeks ago, we were both, I think, struck at a particular moment by how when you're not in Engelbert (ph), you know, you think very, like at a very high level and abstractly and sort of put things together conceptually and remember things very well but there's a level of kind of emotionally being in touch that is, is very difficult. [00:33:21]
Whereas, when you're feeling, when you're kind of more Engelbert mode, in a way that was unclear to both of us, your thoughts and kind of a way to conceptualize about what's going on goes out the window. That's where you seem to be right now. I...
 My point in that metaphor was you come in the next week with same complaint as the week before with no recollection of having...
 a much more detailed, involved, and actually quite satisfying explanation for what's going on. [00:34:11]
 I don't think it is. You're frustrated.
 Okay what's the explanation?
 I said, okay what's explanation?
 Why the feeling the way that you are. Why you're stuck in the way you are. Why you're having trouble getting work done. Why you're having trouble remembering what we talked about last week.
 (LAUGHTER)
 Oh, I'm sure it's in there and it will come back. I'm not concerned about it being gone altogether but it's strikingly unavailable.
 Well.
 (inaudible) it's an opportunity.
 I mean, here you are in here, in the lab, exhibiting the very problem that in the world has caused you so much grief. (PAUSE) [00:37:00]
 And you have the opportunity to look at it a little bit removed...
 ...from actually having to write the memo or...
 ...you know what I mean.
 Well...
 I understand.
 I think it probably has, is more of a reaction. There are a few things but I think a crucial one is the five days that have passed...
 ...between Friday and today. And not because you don't have the capacity to remember something for five days. I mean, okay, I'll cease and desist with the metaphors in a minute but let me shoot for one more. (LAUGHTER) Like so you say...
 (LAUGHTER) Yeah another way of looking at it like, you know, you spend a year writing the first two chapters of your dissertation, let's say. And then you came in the next week, sat down scratched your head and said, "What was I working on?" [00:39:00]
 Yeah.
 Right. So, I think it's not the span of time exactly with the five days although I think it's part of it. I think it's probably more the sense of being abandoned.
 By me, for that period that leads you to discard. Unfortunately, we are also going to have to stop...
 ...for today.
 But we'll talk more on Friday. I assume you're not going to Africa next week. Am I right? Okay.
 Okay.
 Good. How are you?
 How come?
 I am a little tired.
 I know.
 Yeah?
 Interesting in what way?
 Okay.
 Yeah. You mean.
 Yeah.
 And you. Say that a little more. I'm not quite clear what you're saying. You don't?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 The left side pains.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You know that we're half.
 Yeah.
 Help just.
 Do you know how ... much have you been. You came in saying that you felt kind of lost. You know that you weren't ... you know.
 How much of that's will? Has that changed at all? [5:25]
 Yeah.
 You just felt it right now?
 Yeah?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Did it - does it feel scary now?
 Yeah.
 Does it feel hard to stay with this scariness? I thought that it might be but I don't know.
 So you were smoothing out the bad and you just felt like maybe I'll just go to sleep forever. That wouldn't be so bad ... to kind of forget.
 Is that why you see it or?
 Yeah.
 You can manage the work.
 Into thinking you're okay? [10:19]
 Because you love them so.
 Yeah.
 Like you do with your kids along the way? [12:30]
 It feels like you're protecting me right now actually.
 As you speak here you're really said what would happen if just started really crying?
 Yeah. That doesn't bring it any closer to us though. (Inaudible) further away.
 That thought.
 Very unappealing.
 Can you say what it would do? It would be.
 So what? I mean suppose you're not like (inaudible).
 You work very hard to try to keep those parts of her out of you but you can't.
 Who was (inaudible) step-father? I mean step-mother?
 You'll never?
 Be - be so (inaudible).
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Can you?
 (Inaudible).
 I mean sometimes a lot - a 13 year old you know you can't not be those things right then. I mean I'm.
 You know I suppose this is a belief I have that you are and that's a healthy thing for a 13 year old to try but.
 So considerate when someone comes to the door in the therapy office you notice that they're tired in about a tenth of a second.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you feel like you're protecting me right now?
 Yeah. How are you doing it?
 You cover up.
 What do you pray would happen if you stopped doing that and just said whatever that angry feeling was to say?
 I noticed.
 Well what would?
 But.
 Yeah. But we won't.
 Yeah. Well what can we?
 Well what - what is going on? I mean were you angry with me? Did you have a thought that you were angry at me about something?
 It went away.
 Were you mad at me?
 Okay.
 Yeah. But you - but you - but you don't know (inaudible).
 You didn't want to bring it in here?
 And what are you afraid would happen? [23:37]
 Yeah. But I don't - that's your perception I know.
 And I don't want to but it may be true. I mean you said that when you'd gotten upset in the past people (inaudible) crazy.
 Yeah.
 Right. We don't know right now but you know.
 Do you ever throw things when you get angry?
 So you would never let yourself go crazy?
 Or maybe you don't even have the (inaudible).
 What was that? I don't remember that you told.
 Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you feel guilty about it?
 So what did you feel guilt - angry about in here just five minutes ago?
 This was a feeling though?
 But you said that like you choose not to say or something like.
 You heard like you (inaudible). 
 Yeah.
 And you can't remember what that was?
 Yeah. Okay. You know.
 Yeah. [26:37]
 Feel sort of overwhelmed.
 It'll come back. You don't have to try so hard now.
 To George maybe?
 What happened - why - what happened there? [29:41]
 When you said it right now though what did you feel? When you imagined saying it. 
 Yeah.
 There's something - well what do you think?
 She - she just really fucked you over though.
 I mean she just said she would do one thing and then.
 But. So we can.
 So and yet in that moment all of the logic you can muster doesn't.
 Doesn't get you over the.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [32:30]
 So.
 Well do you remember what you felt in that moment?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 See I think that you're saying even as you say this it makes me feel like you're scared of it because you're saying why couldn't I say it without getting really, really angry. And my sense is that you're afraid that if you got really, really angry you could really destroy them personally not literally but in some way really do - make the relationship go bad.
 So maybe you're trying to protect yourself.
 Yeah. You were taught that from (inaudible).
 But did.
 Do you think you don't want to get mad at people who you want to kind of - you think you don't get mad at people who you need in some way? 
 That you're afraid that you'll just destroy them and so they won't be there to love you? 
 Well that's a - that's a funny thought.
 To me. Like - what do you mean you know?
 You know well I guess it feels to me like it's.
 It moves you away from just the human ... condition in a way which is that you're ... that you're afraid that if you're angry or push them away and you'll be alone. And in some sense it's ... you know then you - then it feels like you're going to end up saying well I can always go out and find someone else. But just to kind of stay with fear for a minute.
 You know? Is that what it was like? Like it had moved you away from that or maybe I misheard you or didn't know what that thought meant to you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Do you feel out of control?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Well let's see right now let's make some room for a more kind of vulnerable part of you. And let's do that by ... I just want to be that by pointing out the point well - see you're right now kind of - it's like you're making - you know intellectually that there's no - that it's better to be angry than to repress anger. 
And yet in a moment when your mother-in-law only gives you half of the money that she said she would give you or the Chaplain's assistant doesn't do - doesn't help end a man's life with dignity when you asked him to. In that moment the logic doesn't.
 Yeah.
 And I'm suggesting that we allow that my vulnerable part of you in and to kind of say there's something very frightening in that to you. You know? That that's I think what's getting pushed aside. There's a part of you that's afraid you know. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 What are you thinking of when you have those memories? What are you remembering?
 But are you thinking of specific times when people went crazy when you got angry? [40:54]
 But what's the - what's - are you thinking about incidents?
 When you were a child?
 Who was this? Was this his mistress?
 So in that moment with Phil.
 Phil. I'm sorry. He - he had you feeling utterly powerless. And you reacted by ... you swang it all of the way - the pendulum all of the way to the other extreme and portrayed yourself almost as (inaudible). I mean or admission let's say. Meaning that you knew you know. My pointing out that.
 Yeah.
 But there was a way that you originally said that as an example how people don't take your anger seriously?
 Yeah. Well that's just like ... sounds like he didn't take you - he didn't think you were crazy. He didn't take it at all seriously.
 So it's really about feeling powerless but.
 So then part of what you're saying is ... that you're afraid of being angry because you're afraid that will be like you're reaction of last resort. And why - not even.
 Work. 
 And then you would feel really powerless.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [46:37]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. 
 Well but yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. 
 Well that's very important I think. And I think that I wasn't understanding. I mean I don't know that that idea of well of feeling you'll destroy isn't true but this seems to be more.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 But they're both there. They're both there.
 Yeah.
 Well this week you know maybe just be aware as possible any time that you kind of hold back. You know?
 I don't - it sounds like you're actually are pretty aware.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Into this feeling of being really lost.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And this sometimes comes right (inaudible)?
 Yeah. Okay. I'm (inaudible).
 Okay. Did you - did you want to wait and pay or do you want to (inaudible)?
 Yeah. You can. 
 You can.
 Oh yeah. And I got a method of - I got a machine to do that. They want me send them one.
 Yeah.
 Take some of them. You - you're maybe (inaudible), right?
 Alright. Well take those. And then here take these.
 Okay. These guys?
 (Inaudible) mother-in-law?
 Alright.
 See you in a week.
 Well, don't you feel special that way?
 So, what are you going to do Sunday then, sleep?
 Oh, yeah.  What's he training for?
 Ah, boo.
 We thought we were done with that.
 He did huh?  Is, is that the bonus?  Sign up and get to go to Iraq?
 You ready for your test tomorrow?
 You had another test?
 And they went okay?
 Your grades have been all right the past month?
 I'm not sure what that means.
 For the, uh, term?
 Oh.
 What are you going to end up with?
 When do you go back?
 Um-hum.  When is your next, when are you going back again?
 Nothing before that?
 You're still having problems?
 Yeah.
 Well, if they can help you some.  How's your mood been?
 Any reason?
 You, you spent a lot of time thinking about it though.
 Where you want to be, and what do you want to be doing.  You just haven't figured out what's going to be the perfect solution.
 Like?
 [LAUGHING].  Okay.
 There's always more school.
 Graduate school is different.
 Just like college is different than high school.
 Right.  Graduate school is not just a continuation of college.
 It's different.
 When do you graduate?
 When do you graduate?
 It might make you anxious.
 Worked up.  That sounds like more than a little anxious.
 And what happens then?
 That helps?
 You'll pace outside instead of inside, huh?
 You hanging out with anybody?
 No roommate?
 Um-hum.
 Where did you meet these people?
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Well, they're not really asking how.
 They don't really want to know.
 You know, that's what they would like you to do.
 So, you'll be in [DEIDENTIFIED] how long?
 Well, what would you do when you get back here?
 Doing that again?
 You haven't heard yet?
 You haven't heard if you got the job?
 Um-hum.
 What else are you worrying about these days?
 I would think so.  It wasn't before, you know.
 What's he going to do?
 Oh, he is going to be in there.
 So when you told him, when he told you that he was going to re-enlist, what did you, what did you say?
 [LAUGHING].  Okay.
 Right.
 What's his wife think?
 When does he leave?
 And when are you leaving?
 Um-hum.
 Nice to have a little bit freedom [INAUDIBLE] your schedule.  You going to work at all?
 Medicine okay?
 Medicine okay?
 What are you doing when you have down times now, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Sleep?
 Nothing?
 No.  It seems like they might at the time, but -
 What else this summer?  Anything else coming up?
 Mom okay?
 Your mom's okay?
 Are you set on medicines?
 You been seeing that counselor over at [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 You going to see him over the summer?
 Has it been helpful?
 Well, you know, you don't like the, the spotlight on you at all?
 Or people knowing much about you or?
 We'll see.
 You know the consequences I guess, if that's what you mean by after.
 How many hours of sleep are you getting a night?
 Why so few?
 Why not eight or nine?
 Really?  Once you're asleep -
 Once you're asleep, you don't have any like insomnia during the middle of the night?
 To do what?
 You're not going to watch a bunch of TV.
 How do you do, do you do a little better with eight hours?
 Does that wake you up when you toss and turn?
 Self esteem seems okay?
 Not too shaky?
 Not too shaky?
 You're concerned with this idle time I guess that you got coming up.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Remember that one.
 Still like that.
 That makes sense.
 Rational.
 You don't say much about your dad.  Is he doing okay?
 Really?
 The [DEIDENTIFIED] that you're going to is the one in [DEIDENTIFIED].
 You have to let me know how that goes.  I sent a couple of people down there.  They've had pretty good results.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Well, that's their approach.
 They look at everything.
 Where's it at?
 Is it?
 I guess I was thinking that your counseling before when you talked about it, you talked about it very positive, like it was very helpful -
 And I'm not hearing that from you right now.
 Right.
 Of course.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But you're not going to be doing that this summer?
 This term?
 Okay.
 If they're going to be there in the fall -
 It'd probably be a good idea.
 If it's going to be the same person.
 I guess I'm just thinking, um, I don't like the down time you have.
 That's a lot of time.
 Well, that's kind of what I was wondering too.  Why don't you just stay there?
 I think he'd prefer it.
 You know, because, you know, you know, you're thinking about what the heck am I going to do when I graduate [INAUDIBLE] questions, and what am I going to do with my life and we all need a purpose.
 We all need, and I think you get that from going over to your brother's.
 You get a sense that you're, you're doing something and providing a service and helpful and connection and -
 I understand that, I understand that's a theory you have.
 But I -
 You never know.
 You just never know, and you're not going to know unless you're out there.
 Well, but, but, by doing that, what I mean is you're not just holed up in your bedroom though.  You're out there.  You're going to school.
 You're going to graduate.  You're going to get a job.  You've talked a lot about, you know, teaching over in Germany.  You really need to pursue that.
 It'd be unlikely you'd have the same job the rest of your life.
 Most people don't.  Most people have change of jobs -
 At least once.  At least.  [INAUDIBLE] put a little pressure on yourself to do it.
 Just right.
 Well, I agree.  I agree.  That's a lot on your own.
 You've been [INAUDIBLE] in your life.
 You know, it's interesting, you put it, uh, that way because I don't know -
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 What's on your mind?
 Ah-huh.
 Yeah.
 Congratulations.
 I say that knowing you're not thrilled about all of this.
 You're not the only person in the world, I can guarantee you that.
 Yeah.
 Oh wow, cool.
 Oh, wow.
 Mm-hmm.
 Lessons, yeah, things to work on.
 But different things.
 (inaudible) something. Are you pleased with that?
 Mm-hmm.
 Okay. (pause)
 I guess my impression is that you feel (pause) certainly relieved of the burdens around like school and the project um, and sort of a little freer, but not at times because you kind of anticipate and fear how you could make yourself feel if you don't make use of your time in a way that you're pleased with? [00:07:04]
 Irrespective of what your kind of actual responsibilities may be.
 You could think in terms of what would make you happy.
 I get it. [00:08:06]
 Yeah, I mean I guess it's kind of like the war hasn't stopped.
 There's been maybe some lessening of the hostilities or something.
 But it's sort of all still there.
 Mm-hmm, sure.
 (inaudible). [00:09:16]
 Somehow that's not motivating you?
 It's just making you unhappy.
 Would you enjoy going to the gym? I mean -
 Right, so it's a good idea that way.
 Are you frustrated? [00:11:01]
 Mm-hmm. (pause)
 Your oscilloscope. Ah-huh.
 How so?
 Like somehow when you get things done, it makes you feel like you have even more to do?
 Well is there any more you can say about what it's like or what kind of logic you're using there?
 Mm-hmm.
 I see.
 Oh gosh.
 Yeah.
 Oh my gosh.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm. [00:16:30]
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right. Right, so it (pause) - I mean different task, same shit.
 And ah, (pause) yeah, and I guess part of the whole paradigm is that not only is it different task, same shit, but it's different task, same shit, no accounting for the task that you've just gotten done. [00:18:46]
 That were hard to do. (pause) Which I guess leaves you feeling kind of similarly bad.
 Did you have another thought?
 Ah-huh.
 I see.
 I see, yeah, yeah.
 That sort of reminds me of like trying to get a table with many - a big table with many, many legs, to stay flat.
 Oh.
 And you do that because like if you're printing the same page... Oh wait a minute. Why do you do it that way? In other words, -
 No, sorry, no that's - I don't mean like why, that I got, but why do you have to change both the paper and the type each time?
 All right, so this is for printing like the hundred first pages of the invitation.
 Okay, got it.
 Right. But I still get it, you have to reach in and pull out the paper every time, without getting your hands mushed.
 Oh my goodness.
 Wow.
 Right.
 Right.
 I see, but it still sucks.
 What kind of loser are you for asking for help with this? [00:24:41]
 Do you have any thoughts? (pause)
 I see.
 You should have been more on top of things. You should have another way figured out so that you don't need somebody's help, that kind of thing?
 I guess I was smiling because this - I know you don't entirely feel this way, but I think you do admit. This sounds to me like a metaphor for therapy for you, in that you're not thrilled about seeking help. [00:27:37]
 To deal with really quite dangerous and sometimes damaging machinery. I guess to me there seems to be something similar about like the physical danger that you feel for this machinery and the worry that you have about the next three months?
 You know?
 Like if you're not careful, if you don't do things right over the next three months, you're really going to let yourself have it. And um, you're not thrilled about asking for help in either case and feel like of course, this is stuff you should be more on top of or more in control, you know more control or it should be happening this way or something. (pause) I'm not quite sure honestly, like what my point is in saying that, but it occurred to me. [00:28:49]
 Of course there are.
 Yeah.
 Horrible.
 I got it. I'm not sure why nobody saw. I mean some of it is if your parents don't see and don't want to see kind of things, but I don't know, but ah, you're not making it up.
 Right.
 I see. The norm is for the advisors to usually do it.
 I guess it seems to me like that's one of the (pause) most horrible things about being treated that way when you're ten or eleven, younger, and that it's so clear to you now, like you were saying, is that that kid doesn't know how horribly they're being treated. They know how horribly they feel. [00:34:47]
 But they often, especially if other things line up as they did for you, feel like it's just them.
 Which doesn't go away too easily. (pause) Do you have thoughts or worries about what it is about you when you feel this way? [00:35:52]
 Is there any extent to which you feel this way here? Like that I'm, in one way or another, sort of leaving you alone with the things that you're struggling with, or could or would be helping you in a different way if you were different? [00:36:54]
 I didn't have a - other than sort of - it seems to me, an implication that you felt that way often and in many places. I didn't have a reason to think you were feeling it here. In other words, there wasn't some other reason besides that, that I had mentioned it. I just figured I'd ask. (pause) Yeah, if it does seem that way, that wasn't the case.
 Nobody growing up, had a sense of your like struggling, being depressed, being picked on, being kind of alienated. (pause) And it felt to you how, like there must have been people seeing it and they just felt you deserved it, and that's how it supposed to be, you feeling like that.
 Yeah.
 Oh god.
 Congratulations.
 Just after letter presses I think.
 But that someone cared about, like in other words, that was worth your time and energy and somebody else's interest, but not say that you were miserable.
 Or suffering socially.
 How did you react to things like that?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, like (inaudible), yeah.
 Ah-huh.
 Sure, because the grownups get excited about it.
 We're going to stop for now. We'll talk more tomorrow.
 So, what brings you in today?  What kinds of problems are you having?
 Um, how many years have you suffered from that?
 All your life?
 And then you had a very deep depression then?
 Now, have you been consistently on medication for depression, or did they start it, you got better, and they stopped it, or -
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Now you, you, evidently you've been under treatment, you're switching uh, doctors, is this because of insurance problems, or?
 Okay.
 Okay, so he wants you to go to 1 of the in treatment doctors that are available through your plan?
 Okay.  How old are you now?
 All right, and you mentioned you're married, how long have you been married?
 First marriage, second, or -
 Uh, your current address?
 And a phone number there?
 All right, um, do you know your social security number off hand?
 And where were you born?
 Do you have any allergies to any medicines at all?
 Any physical problems, like blood pressure, diabetes, no?
 Okay.
 Are you treated for that with anything, or -
 And um, you have a primary care doctor?
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 That's down in the shore.  And then who is, who was your doctor, your psychiatrist, your previous one?
 Where is he located?
 Okay, so it's, you're, was it a long trip here today, or -
 The same?
 All right.  Have you had any periods of highs where you don't sleep, or you're up all night and -
 All right.
 But this has been basically considered, um, like a recurrent depression and then normal in between, or -
 Okay.
 All right, no, you don't wish for that.
 It's in the back of the head, right?
 All right.  So what has been the most favorable medicine for you, to keep things under control?
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 How much do you take with that?  Thirty or 60 mg?
 Okay, does uh, do they have you on anything else, or just the Cymbalta?
 Oh, Adderall?
 What size do you take there?
 And that's once a day?
 And that's what, did they diagnose ADHD?
 All right.  Oh, when did they make that diagnosis?
 You probably noticed things growing up, like going through school, you had problems paying attention?
 Okay.
 [INAUDIBLE] didn't get off to a good start because it was mad at you all the time, right?
 All right.  Um, how is your mood now, would you say?
 Yeah?
 What, what is that degree?
 Okay.
 Don't be, the state funds will open up soon.
 They will, I'm, it's just, I mean, the money will get through the economy and the governor, will, he untighten the purse strings, you'll see, you'll find work.  You'll find a job.  And your husband is working meanwhile so you, you're okay financially?
 Well, he's probably scared, right, with this economy, what does he do for a living?
 And people always fight like this in -
 But you have to under -
 That's good.
 Um, more than 50%?
 He's all right, then.  My financial advisor says, "If it's 50% or less, you will be all right."
 Just wait it out.
 Yeah.  So the Cymbalta and the Adderall XR 30.  Are you taking anything else, or is that it?
 So, generally you're in pretty good health.  I mean, you have some GERD, what do take for that, the Nexium?
 All right, Cymbalta, does that help with any aches or pains or anything like that?  It's supposed to be good.
 Yeah.
 Oh, which knee did you have done?
 If you, um, you know, if you just do normal walking, there's no reason that shouldn't last.  They say 15 years, but my mom had them done in her 60s and her first, she had to have 1 replaced after 25 years and the other ones still there, and still going.
 And she just does normal walking, you know, you don't want to jog or do heavy  stuff.
 You know, that destroys them, but most of the time, they will last a very long time.
 Yeah.  They only say 15 years though, but they last longer than that.  I've seen athletes that last maybe 10 years because they're pounding -
 Doing jogging, and a lot of other stuff.  Be careful with it.
 And you know to take precautions when you go to the dentist with antibiotics and all that stuff.  Do you want me to be able to talk at all to general practitioner?
 All right, I'll just put [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].  If they call, we'll, we can talk with them.
 All right, so we'll continue on the plan you're on.
 No suicidal thoughts or anything?
 Did you ever have them when you were severely depressed?
 Okay.
 She still alive?  You still talk with her?
 Do you have children yourself, or -
 Now when you, um, left the doctor, how much medicine do you have on hand?
 All right, so he gives you like a 90 day supply at a time?
 Okay, and the Adderall?
 All right, so you will need a script for that today.  All right.  Do you have any um, problems with um, hearing things, voices, anything like that?
 With Cymbalta, I guess, and uh, Adderall, if you have any rashes, stop.  Usually lightheadedness, or dizziness, nausea, just eat first.
 Um, you said you're on it already, and I think you probably have, you're not going to get any new side effects from those.  Now, you mentioned, I believe, you had seen a psychiatrist, you happen to know him, and uh, as a friend as well as your doctor, right?
 So um, and um, he was prescribing, now he's not going to do that, right?
 These are um, I have 2 forms here, depending what your insurance has, some like one, some like the other, some like both.  What they are is disclaimers.  They just say if you have any problem with the medicine, you can stop immediately without calling me, but just call me to let me know what you've done.  Uh, if you have any rashes, definitely stop.
 Um, the part I crossed out having to do with part of dyskinesia doesn't apply to these meds.
 All right.  You will periodically need blood work, just to make sure you're not having any problems.
 All right, you probably aren't having problems with this, we wait every 6 months to do it.
 Um, let's see, today's date is the [DATE].  So read these, and then where the Xs are on the bottom, sign those.
 All right, any questions?
 All right, and that lets me talk with [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 I think I've met [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] a few times at meetings.  His name is so familiar -
 Just don't -
 Okay, no alcohol or substance abuse problems?
 Good.  Well, what does your plan allow?  Do they allow you to initial evaluation, plus med checks when you come in?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Will they allow you to see a psychologist if you need to talk to someone?
 They will.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 And who, who was that?
 [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 You graduated, she said?
 If you, um, can skip 2 days in a row on your Adderall -
 You will always find that when you need it, it will work.
 Because the liver down regulates if you skip a few days.  You can probably -
 If you need to focus every day then take it, but if there are days where you can be a little distracted and really don't care, then, uh -
 Yeah.
 And you'll find it will always kick in Monday and do its job the rest of the week.
 I will see you then, um, in about a month.
 And uh, if you have any problems, you know, give me a call.
 Any problem with the meds, it sounds like you're okay with them, so that's good.  And, um -
 Take care.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Same here, good meeting you.
 Take care.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 (inaudible) 24-006 Session number one. 1970. Client 0324-006. Session number one.
 What to do here?
 Well can I talk about how many - the way it has to run. If you have a place where you want to start something that's concerning you that's where I'd like to start. Does that help?
 Like it might be easier if you were a little down today or something?
 I think you're saying.
 You know sounds like just you're not sure how this is going to go but you - alright it's not like - you feel like you're containing a whole lot of stuff inside yourself. And so far you haven't gotten anywhere trying to do it by yourself. Trying to talk to your friends about it sounds like maybe I don't know just makes you feel bad about yourself. You don't like how you - what that does to you - to have to talk to them. So it's like you know you want to talk to I guess a therapist or someone that you don't know that well. But you're not really sure how it'll go. 
 You're skeptical that talking to someone won't help you?
 Direst from outside you or in your own pressure? [5:06]
 So this isn't like any theoretical or I don't know skepticism that you get from reading journals. Like you have personally then experienced?
 And that leads you to be very - well you said skeptical - I guess also leery about what's going to happen here.
 Okay good. It sounds like you right now you're in kind of a box because there's something in you that's really pushing to try that again. I think you said something about feeling that was your last hope or something to that effect. [7:47]
 Is that - are you talking about like that state that you just described before is kind of like the bottom and it feels like sort of on your way up if you're willing to try something?
 Yeah.
 Okay and I guess that ... what I'm thinking about and I didn't hear you say it, it's just the way it came to me like sort things around and maybe it's worth trying again to let somebody in or just tell somebody about it. Even though I would image like you would feel very weary about going through this whole process of trying to get yourself across to somebody again.
 It's rare and it sounds like right now you have absolutely no idea how to get there or how even approach it closely enough so that you could for God's sake make up two incompletes. It's sounding like its like being buried under a snow drift and if you get anything done it's because you got goateed from behind sort of or from the outside. Not because you feel you were able to do it. [13:04]
 And it sounds like that's a signal of something wrong when you can't make a clear decision to go do something you really love to do. Like that really says that's really sad for me. 
 It's like everything that happened that piles another thing on top of that. As if nothing happens to break it or to break into it or to loosen it at all for you. But it just all becomes an additional weight. Is that what you were saying?
 That's what you saw stretching ahead of you.
 You're saying it wasn't impulsive?
 Yeah it sounded like there was something about - you mentioned the word moment. There's something about that moment that was really (inaudible at 20:55) That you decided that it was going to be that kind of moment and the - all of the other stuff that was like a mediocre kind of way don't avail. It simply wasn't quite (inaudible at 21:06) for that. And that you knew you could keep from being mediocre. And that's at least how it sounded to me.
 And that so far it still looks pretty gray.
 To you.
 Yeah. It was like you said I know I'm responsible for or at least in part for making it not mediocre.
 But that's like that's very nice. That's actually that's a principle. And how do I begin to do that?
 Thus far you've been or at least what I've heard you talk about and attending to other people. Other people who find that other people are saying what a mess you made for us. Other people in various ways. Focus your energies on there but nothing really changed for you. [22:11]
 Maybe that's because like I was pulling some stuff together that you really didn't say it quite in that way. What I heard you saying was I've been snowed under with this work and I'm reading in that you're trying to get assignments done or fix incompletes. And you just something about atoning to my parents. And oh course it sounded like you've really been a kind of a mess there maybe. And it's just struck me like well those are all assignments that are delivered from people outside you and don't do much for you. Or it sounded like those aren't the kinds of things you're working for. Telling somebody you're sorry. Making it up to them. 
 Yeah and you're saying it's a kind of that doesn't really give me any evidence on what my boyfriend said to me last (argument then) (ph). 
 Yeah I was going to ask you if there'd been any times when you felt like you had tried to change something and do something and that you'd really been kind of slapped for that.
 Alright like that door was closed and you felt like that had little effect on you? [26:29]
 You're being here in the department or whatever?
 Tell me. Let me check this out. I'm getting the feeling like you had one hell of a lot of stuff to do this summer. I mean you know things other than incompletes and feeling bad about your life and all that kind of thing. I'm wondering if you have the feeling that every time you ask for anything - support, knowledge, an opportunity to learn something - people just said no. And that you felt like left without absolutely no one but yourself to do all these things.
 And that like now you're not only drained but feel like it's not a question of sitting for a while and regrouping and stuff like that but just really defeated.
 Yeah.
 Like every refusal makes it look more ... well (sometimes it sounds think it's) (ph) impossible to do. It doesn't sound like just a matter of resources but also ask of the feeling well why try. Because like everybody is saying no, no you're a black sheep. You're...
 (So you went) (ph) back to there or what you were asking? [34:47]
 So you're saying as far as you know there wasn't anything manipulative in your efforts. But I'm wondering are you thinking about either some way that you present yourself or underlying motivations or something like that?
 Do you - let's see I'm not sure if this is a (picking nothing type a thing that) (ph). Is there something in myself that you really can see and point to that makes you feel that way? Or is there something like no matter how - what you're scientific belief is that things get transmitted or not it's like there's precedence for it and you're afraid that some of it rubbed off on you? In other words do you see anything that you thinks that way or are you just are you saying I'm just afraid they are in some way?
 Manipulative? Yeah.
 You've got what? 
 Yeah you're enough like her yourself and you - I would gather anyway seen somebody go down hill really almost before your very eyes. Really does bad things I think. 
 And like that it's almost like a constant reminder or if it scares you at all you've got on going things to make you worry about. Go ahead I can (inaudible at 38:47)
 Yeah (inaudible at 39:33)
 I'm sure that's like really upsetting and all that kind of stuff but like can you say what hearing her say is like? What does that do to you when she says that? What are all of the things that go through your head?
 About being unstable or the cause or is that what you meant?
 And like she really feeds in - there's something about family members that like they at least for me they can get to you in a way nobody else can. Say like saying someone saying the same thing it might hurt but there's something about that just gets you in the most vital spots you could possibly get you.
 Like really trying to put that effect on you.
 And you're left I guess keeping - then keeping that all to yourself at the time.
 But it takes its toll. It feeds into the other things that you do.
 Oh okay. Okay that's like a ... hold on a second - stigma type thing.
 Do you like to think that it could be different? That everything that gets brought up it makes you wonder.
 Or it makes it hang like a sign on you that says I'm a whatever. [43:17]
 I'm not sure why I wanted to know but I guess I was going to ask you are you the person primarily responsible for your aunt? I don't mean in a financial way but like ...
 Okay.
 Okay so you are faced with really being - well I don't know sounds like being trained for sole responsibility for something that's very hard. Very, very hard for you. And like that that sounds like that's a fixed thing in your life. Is that so or is there some?
 Did she call on you and ask you come home? And why don't you do for me unless ...
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 That sounds like that ... that sounds just like it's the only way you've arrived at to be able to survive and handle it. But it takes a terrible toll to maintain that kind of control.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah like that was another - that was somebody that you thought might be a support and he definitely took himself out of the picture.
 Well it sounds true. Like you felt reluctant to use people that way or talk to them. I didn't mean use - manipulate ...
 But to confide in them that way and this was another indication that you better not do that if you want ...
 A relationship or your relationship is kind of ...
 What's the word ... circumscribed. We're going to have to stop for today. 
 Let's see ... (inaudible at 52:01) (coughing) Perception is to quality. You said that you've - that there wasn't any possibility for you to come during the day. Is that the case pretty much?
 (That's some day) (ph).
 Okay. I'd like to make the next appointment for that time. That happens to be a good evening. I was. Let's see. And I don't know about - usually we would schedule two appointments a week. I don't - I'll have to see when the other one can be. Do you have any feelings about whether you want it at two or one by the way? You do have a say in that. [52:45]
 Okay. One other thing I wanted to say and like I - I guess it's like in a sense much too early for me to say something like this in the sense that we don't know each other very well. But I would be very willing for you to try at least try this. When some phone call like that comes up to either call and see if you wanted to come in that day or to call up and talk for awhile about it. Because like that's something that maybe not only might be nice for you for a change but it also would be good for the therapy you're in. Something to it or something like that. But I surely don't expect you to feel really comfortable about doing that right away. But I do (inaudible at 53:32)
 Okay.
 I'll tell you one reason why I'm saying that like I've (gone out on the ropes) (ph) with my family and I've never run across (a naughtier problem) (ph) in my life. And like it's very hard. Something like people don't want to hear about always and it's hell to watch them. And it kind of hurts me to hear you (flunking) (ph) about that. Where it didn't.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah and it's like if you have - my way of looking at that would be if you've got resentments about them let's get it over with now so you can deal with her and not pass them onto your kids. I mean so it doesn't mess up other kinds of relationships you have or something like that. Okay. Okay. Then I'll see you Tuesday at five.
 Okay.
 You bet.
 See you later.
 I'm just curious what the process was like for you of sorting those out?
 Lots of time. 
 Good.
 You thought a lot about this. 
 Good. Well that's the way I'd hoped you would do it also. 
 It's a big pile. That's right.
 Yeah, there were some cards where you could write on them things that weren't included and you used those too.
 That's fine. I had a quick look through these and what I want to talk about most of all is the ones that you said were most important. And on top here you put the ones that's out of this large number here you picked out, I think, about 12 or so that seem to rise to the top. 
 And so those are the ones that I'm really most interested in hearing about. Let me just kind of lay them out here and we can then have a look at them. Family, fitness, purpose, spirituality, health, inner peace, self esteem, ecology, autonomy, this says be conscious of holding judgments of others, resolve conflict. [0:45:19]
 Yeah. So these are really important ones? Resolve conflict, not to ignore dismiss, minimize, or deny what's going on; to be listened to and to be seen. All right. Maybe we'll start with those since they were so important that you wrote them down as something of special interest for you. So might we start with this one because you said it's so important to be conscious of forming judgments of other people? Tell me about that. 
 And let me understand. Is it that you would like to pursue the opposite of that? You'd like to be more accepting and less judging?
 Yes. Okay, to catch it when those judging thoughts are coming through. 
 But that's what you want to do to catch yourself when you are making judgments of people in particular and to let that go. To be more accepting of people and less judging. [0:48:09]
 Oh no. It must be a constant discipline.
 And you became especially aware of that during this long period of silence.
 So that must've helped you to be more conscious of this when it happens. 
 And you're better at it. Right. So that's a long term goal to become even more...
 Right. Not something you can fix just like that and it's done.
 But discipline. And this next one that you wrote, resolve conflicts, and not ignore it, not suppress it, not overlook it and deny it, tell me about that one. 
 So that's a part of what you were just talking about of being judged constantly.
 You don't want to let things like that go.
 When you're aware there's a conflict you want to deal with it or at least know that you're going to deal with it. 
 Won't let it go huh? 
 So it would be most difficult for you to relate to people who don't want to deal with conflict who'd rather just not talk about it and sweep it under the rug?
 Because you think about it all the time that it's not resolved. 
 So if she felt it she said it.
 So when something's unsettled you want to make it right. 
 Okay. So that's enough for you to be able to have your say and have the person understand what it is.
 And that's related to this one to be listened to and to be seen perhaps?
 So one thing event will value is that you're going to tell the truth. You're going to say what it is that's on your mind, and you want people to hear that, to listen to you.
 The judgment's right. And you have written separately to be listened to be seen. Are those a little bit different to you somehow?
 What does it mean to be seen?
 That you matter?
 Talk to me and listen to me. 
 So to matter to other people.
 Okay, thank you. Family, in what way is family important to you?
 It's that important? 
 So that's still true for you today?
 Family is very, very central. 
 And that turns up in all the things that you do for your family.
 To provide for them. 
 They weren't seen. 
 Reliable.
 Well let's see what else you've got. Here you have fitness. You look quite fit. 
 So your whole life that's been important to you. So from the very beginning that was (inaudible at 1:01:02). To be strong to be fit. Keep yourself well. [1:01:05]
 In part so that you can take care of your family.
 Yes, which is part of your purpose. 
 What else is part of your purpose?
 If I remember right you put succeeding in the least important pile. 
 Uh huh.
 Right. That's what we're talking about. So right now we're talking about purpose; being there for your family.
 Step back for just a little bit, not to be unburdened.
 To have an honored place but not such a responsible have to do it place huh?
 Okay. Now tell me about spirituality. In what ways is that important to you? [1:04:06]
 Very religious huh?
 I don't want that kind of God.
 You sense there's something there.
 In fact the religion that you saw really repelled you. It put you off.
 I don't want to be like that. I don't enjoy this.
 Well there's something very important for you there that doesn't seem to live in any particular religion. It lives in you.
 That was quite important to you during that difficult time when everyone was shutting you out. 
 That's what you had left. 
 It must be tied to this sense of inner peace?
 That gave you what you were looking for sort of the opposite of this judging world that you grew up in.
 Don't judge.
 And you're still working on those? 
 That came along with all this spiritual growth. 
 And you're still healthy.
 Well, let's see. Self esteem must be linked to this too in some way. 
 Quite the opposite growing up. Everything was wrong. Everything was...
 And then when I see you what I hear is autonomy too; to being on your own or worthwhile within yourself. 
 And the last one we have here is ecology something about the environment. What's important there? 
 Take care of the Earth.
 And in some ways you feel a relationship to that. You're part of that.
 So there's a lot in your life. Certainly family is important to you and you've given lots of time taking care of your family. You've got a rich spiritual life that doesn't match well into the way most people do religion but very important to you, very central to who you are and a sense of relatedness there to something beyond yourself. [1:15:56]
 It's a journey towards something?
 There's still something more?
 Some other purpose?
 It's not quite finished. 
 I'm trying to put all this together with what you started with which is being pulled between the responsible life you've had and wanting to be more free. That's tied down to things you have to do and maybe more time to do whatever it is that you still have to do in the time that is left to you. I like the image that you had just a while ago of moving back from the queen to the princess position to let go of reigning responsibilities in a way and still have a place of honor, still be important, still have people see you, and listen to you, care for you, and still have a meaningful role in the kingdom, but not be the one that has to do it all. It's really kind of balance between these two worlds that you presented one of which was being the queen and center of responsibility and the other was leaving behind all of that world. It seems to be something in between you're looking for. [1:18:56]
 To turn some of it over and let other people take some of this on. I'll let you do that. What would be the next step?
 You think you have to leave; to physically go away? [1:19:35]
 Okay, so just too hard to be here. You want to still hang onto the reigns and control it all.
 So time away kind of breaks the pattern and other people literally have to take over the responsibility because you're not there to do it. 
 So you really have to get away for a time and let go in that sense and let other people take over? And they're perfectly ready to do that. You're sense is they can handle this just fine. I just need to let go of the reigns. 
 And also you suspect you might sleep better somewhere else.
 So a perfect place?
 So when do you think you'll go?
 You can get things tied up by then?
 And you're on your way.
 And you're reluctant to let go. You're describing that as one big thing. People confirmed that they're ready to step in and take over some of these responsibilities. You've been reluctant to let go and being here it's really hard to do that. [1:23:18]
 So it's really time to... 
 It's really time if you want to live to do this?
 Yeah. So springtime?
 That sounds exciting. 
 Well that's the message in all (inaudible at 1:24:53). You're also running towards something. 
 Uh huh, and that's important. 
 To stay where you are is to just sort of give up and that's the end. Running toward life. [1:25:12]
 (inaudible at 1:25:17). 
 I have some sense of this is also for your family to let them take the responsibility and kind of go along with their lives, take on the role that they would naturally have if you let that go for you and your family. [1:26:15]
 You're talking about Mack?
 They'll do fine.
 Who you are.
 Good, that was my hope that you could get in touch with that. Okay, given who I am here's where I want to go now. Well I wish you well. 
 Client 0324-006, Interview Number 6, November the 3rd, 1970, Client 0324-006, Interview Number 6, November the 3rd.UNKNOWN SPEAKER: Can I bring you out some hot tea?
 You'll have to tell me what you mean by feedback but it sounds like (inaudible at 1:44).
 Or what  - 
 Inane, inane; meaningless, do you mean there?
 Are you not telling me what you mean by feedback, or is this partly  - 
 Um-hmm.
 Okay, so as far as I'm getting it - I'm going to be - I guess I'm going to seem to - very dogged. You know, when things like this come up I feel very dogged about it, because I really want to know everything that you mean, so forgive me if I go really slowly or act like I'm pinning you down.
 As I'm hearing it so far, you - well, the thing that I get out of what you're saying is I guess it sounds like you feel like you're floundering in some way; that you have some sense that, if left to yourself, you're going to - you're not going to be able to choose what's really the most relevant to talk about. And I also heard attention (ph) and you might be - you might be kind of fooling around and getting away with that. And I guess that - I hear that kind of concern. One thing I'm wondering about is do you have a feeling that I kind of know and I'm not telling you?
 You don't.
 Okay. Okay. 
 And how do I view what that help would be like, how the sessions would be different or how  - 
 Okay. Well, can you enumerate them for me? Because like there's ones about, for me, like my opinion about what you're saying, my opinion about how you come across, my opinion about what's stupid in that or what you're trapping yourself into and that.
 Here, or outside?
 One thing I'm hearing is I know in one sense that it's very frustrating just from sitting in that chair. It can be very frustrating to feel yourself rambling; I really hear that and can resonate with it. Another thing I'm hearing though, too, is that some sense of - real sense of distrusting in your own - what you want to do in here. It's like you've used the word getting away with and stuff. It's like I really get the sense like you have the feeling, despite yourself, you're going to end up wasting your time. [8:10]
 And you have no way of knowing how that is happening or something.
 Okay. Well now, I want to break in here. So far what you've said previous to this has made it sound kind of like an impersonal kind of thing, and not in a bad way, but it's like part of it is a matter of activity. But now what I'm wondering about is like if there's something more like how it is that I am, [whoops, slipped off] (ph), if there's something that you see about or is that experience of identifying with that guy and realizing what you want made you aware of some lack in here.
 Okay.
 Okay. I guess I have, I think, three responses. Let's see if I can get them all out. One is it sounds like you're saying that experience gave you some sense of grasping onto something, being able to turn around and look at it, and to say this part makes sense, this part doesn't make sense. There was something a little more palpable about it. And it wasn't that you learned anything terrifically true or not true, but you had more of a sense of doing something with yourself.
 Okay. Does that mean that you don't have much of a sense of how you hit me.
 Let me see, what was the second thing? Yeah, somewhat parallel I think to what you've been saying; like I've been having the feeling that - I don't know if this is true for everybody, but for me there's a distinct faith (ph) of getting to know my client and vice versa. And because I'm not very good at beginnings, like there's a certain amount of distance, and I've also been having the feeling like okay - I think I had it particularly last time. I don't know if that was that way for you - but I had the feeling of being back a little bit and like it was time, I hoped, for us to sort of get together more, I don't know what that says except that I'm kind of feeling something similar. And I don't exactly know how it's going to go from now, and I don't know if whatever I do you're going to like or anything, but I really want you to keep saying this kind of thing, because it's really important. [12:15]
 Feel afraid.
 Or that it's not liking him (inaudible at 17:29).
 Yeah, what I'm hearing very strongly there is it's not only having a life of your own, but having a life that it makes some - well, so that you may be able to feel a range of things, but that you haven't lost the whole show and you begin to feel bad. That's what I'm hearing, like. It's really like two systems. I'm always intrigued by this writer, Angyal. Have you ever read any - it's someone they give you in personality theory courses. Otherwise I would never have  - 
 And he wrote this one chapter called - somewhere it's called the Universal Ambiguity; and that really spoke to me about how people live in two systems, one is neurotic and one is healthy, and it's an interesting notion and I have feelings that correspond to that. 
 Really it sounded like you were saying - or my image was that when you began to feel bad, you had no idea about what it was like to feel good, nothing to grab onto, no way out. And when you were feeling good, it was like those feelings were very - the other feelings were very alien to you, but you have no trust that they won't become all too familiar again.
 What did that mean?
 Right. What I was wondering about, you said something about a day without my boyfriend, and your voice changed; it sounded very sarcastic, like [who he pin] (ph) with my  - 
 Things are either viable, very viable when you feel alive, but you can do things or you can respond to things or else - it's either that or you're frozen, just frozen. And there's no - sounds like there's no way to see a connection. [24:00]
 Let me talk to you about that. Like you've been talking for, I don't know, maybe 10, 15 minutes, and I'm wondering like if you're having the floundering feeling or how this might go differently for you, how you might like it to go differently, but then it's hard to tell when you're right in the middle of it. But like can you...
 Are you feeling too pressed by me for alternatives?
 Or like I'm saying, "Well, what do you want?" "Well, be specific."
 Yeah, I hear that, and I'm trying to say I'm checking out whether you have a sense for that. And yet, I also know that you've been wondering, unless you have something different than not have anything...
 That's specific. 
 Do you feel kind of destructive?
 And that you're feeling like you're not relating to me now and it's your fault?
 This is different from planning (ph), at least the way I hear what happens between you sometimes is that you really feel rebuffed by him and I don't know - I guess I'm - I haven't heard you say it outright, but it sounds like in addition to having the potential for plunging you into a real depression, that it also makes you very angry with him. I don't know that; that's just a guess.
 Hmm. I'll tell you, the way that strikes me is I can really see why you've been - you've felt that you had to shut off the stuff about - you know, the serious stuff that you feel has scared him off. What really hits me is an expectation I also hear; that you can never change that, that you therefore can't expect him to hear anything or to make any distinctions, or that the hopelessness that you feel about changing that, and I think that's how you would think of to get into. Because I find myself reacting like for what now does she like about him, or, why can't he listen when she wants to tell him about something good, and what that means to me, I need to know more about it. 
 It sounds like in some ways you - the way you're talking about it now - you see that there's something that holds you back. It holds you back in that you keep - and this is my guess or the way I see it - that you keep knocking on this door and this person keeps slamming it in your face over and over again. 
 But there's enough something or other between you, and I don't mean that disparagingly, but like it's kind of like that's - there are friendly moments or warmness or something, just enough to keep you going and just enough to keep you not actively looking for someone else.
 Are you saying you just feel at that point absolutely hopeless about being able to communicate yourself to another person?
 Just absolutely hopeless, regardless of whether or not they might try to hear you or they might want to hear you. Is that right?
 No, I didn't mean fault.
 Yeah. I've heard you say, at least what came across as things from each of those with reference to your boyfriend, it made me think that there were two grouped ways distinctly.
 I guess not. For some reason I don't... Because it has happened before, you can't say it has to do with him.
 It sounds to me like you're wondering whether you're suspecting yourself with replicating or having this pattern of relationships with that?
 Well, have you ever felt that you had successfully conveyed yourself to somebody at a time that really mattered?
 What about a time when you really felt cut off like this or whatever this feels like? I don't know quite what it's like. I have a feeling I keep knocking at it or saying is it this or that and that doesn't help much. But at one of these times when you're sitting in your monad or whatever it is, have you ever had the experience of breaking that and getting through to somebody, feeling that hopelessness and getting out of it, getting through?
 Do you try?
 Conveying to you you're too much for him or pressing him too hard?
 Can you give me - gee, that feels so concrete. But like one thing I'm realizing and one thing that I was thinking about between last time and this time was that a real need to kind of get in and know what some of the details are, or get a more concrete feel for something. Can you give me an example of a time when you would try, what you would say, that gets him saying get off my back like that? Now if nothing comes to mind, we can do it another time. [38:28]
 Right. 
 Um-hmm. I don't remember what I said.
 You can't tell him you really want to talk to him, and when you really want to do that stuff, that scares him? Is that what you mean?
 Okay. So in that are you saying there may be a matter of my not indicating clearly enough, for whatever reason?
 Oh, I'm really sorry. Let me see. Tomorrow at 5:15, or - I forget.
 This Friday isn't possible for me unless you could come in the morning, which I guess you work (inaudible at 40:55) during - 
  Well, (clears throat) let me, uh, point out some of the sequences recently of the way your thoughts have gone.  See you started out with a fantasy about me after the vacation, and then maybe backed off.  And then you came back to it, and eventually that came to the point where you had the ideas that you had when you came in here the day when you were afraid or thought I might touch you, and all that that led to, which was on a Friday, if I recall.  And then you went home, and started to get all interested in MSCZ.  And then, yesterday, you were feeling very strongly this particular feeling about FNI that you felt in regard to your mother.  And right now you come back to your mother again, fighting with her, or struggling , or feeling like a little girl.  I think there must be some clue in this way your ideas and thoughts have gone the last few weeks. (pause)
I (clears throat) didn't mention, it seems to me, another piece of events, and that is that the hour after you had the, uh, (deep breath) the whole experience and the idea of my touching you, was the hour you cancelled, though you had ostensibly good reasons for doing so, but it may have also served the purpose of keeping you away from what you had thought of the previous Friday.  (silence)
  W_ what do you mean?  What other reason?
  Yeah, now why do you think this might have occurred to you right now?
  Well, the thing you've conspicuously omitted any reference to is the first part of what I pointed out about the way your thoughts have gone:  what you've been thinking about; what you've been talking about.  Namely me.  (silence)
And after all, it is even more striking since your feeling changed so abruptly when you started to get ready to come and see me today.  Suddenly it seemed like an overwhelming burden.
  Well, our time's up.
 Interview 8, interview 8. January 13th, January 13th. Austin Counselor Psych 2. Track 2. Client 1927-1112. Interview 8.
 The thing we were talking about last week?
 I know we talked a lot last week. I don't know if it was the thing we ended up with, but we talked a lot about like how you couldn't really relate to your wife in a close, meaningful way, kind of relationship you want. Oh, and you talked about, I don't know if it was the last thing, but about fear of losing her.
You look like you're feeling down.
 You mean you feel like you're edgy?
 Is it there's - is it like - is it a feeling of like having some sort of anxiety because things don't seem exactly in place? 0:02:22.1
 What's the matter? I mean, what's it about?
 Wait, you didn't tell me about that. When was this?
 You told me about having an affair?
 I remember talking about thinking about having affairs, but anyway, go on.
 It sounds like you feel very torn about doing it.
 But not doing it for the fear of feeling.
 It sounds like it really disturbed you.
 You know, jarred some kind of equilibrium.
 Why did it upset it?
 Why did it upset it? Because you kind of sense it was something you wanted to do but weren't sure why, and brought out all the things you're unhappy about in your marriage and not sure what you want to think? Is that -
 Why did you want to do it?
 It felt good.
 It's nice to be wanted.
 You're wanted. 0:06:56.8
 Sounds like, you know, how you feel about this is, what's developing, is very confusing to you. I mean, I get a sense why your equilibrium feels upset.
 You can see what you could do to someone, but don't do what you want. Is that what you mean?
 Afraid to know that?
 Was there a fear of what that knowledge might do to you?
 Well, did they work out that way? 0:09:08.7
 What happened?
 This is what she wanted to do?
 It's like you really felt - I mean, I can really see in a way, it's like god damn it, you really felt like you're hurting and suffering for some ego gratification in a way and to know that you're needed and wanted and can do something for someone.
 And it would have been nice to have that. But, but I risk throwing too much away. 0:11:08.2
 I have to weigh that, you know, against what I have. And maybe part of the confusion or upset equilibrium is like it raised all those things, you know. We talked about them before, but it kind of made them feel a little more present because in a way it was a microcosmic kind of decision that you think about every now and then.
 Are you kind of now sensing the kind of the uncertainty of that disequilibrium about your marriage?
 I was - you looked troubled like you were processing something, and I was wondering if what you were processing was kind of what that feeling of about equilibrium was like.
 (inaudible at 0:12:50.3)
 When you say you knew her potential, does she have any potential for you?
 Why doesn't she?
 Too much to carry.
 Which are what?
 Is it fidelity? Is that one?
 You feel like if like when you're around people, it's like you'd much rather feel proud of your wife, like it makes you feel better inside to be with someone like her. People see her.
 Something strange that's hitting me about those assets.
 There's something strange hitting me about those assets. I don't know exactly what. Something about like you'd much rather be - your wife's cooler, or especially the thing about well, the last thing about like I almost had the feeling the last thing was like, you know, my wife's a better showpiece than this girl would be.
 Yet you kind of felt something pulling you back. Did something was pulling you there or was it because it feels pretty dissatisfying with your wife?
 You were feeling like some of the nice things - there was something nice there.
 Walking out the door was risking closing the door on those nice things.
 Is this kind of why you're feeling very agitated and grumpy, feel upset?
 Because of this experience -
 Kind of made you question some things.
 Yeah, I sense it made alive some kind of doubt in you more strongly at home, you know, more present.
 The doubt being about your relationship with your wife.
 You mean your wife really suggested that you -
 It's less complicated.
 It sounds like I guess what you're saying is that there was something that you - 
 didn't want to break the engagement.
 That didn't want to break the engagement.
 Well say more, I mean call your ambivalence. What is it that you were torn about?
 Yeah, and I mean I really sense like you really did want to see her.
 Who's better off - this type of phenomena, I'm just talking metaphorically like -
 No, no what I mean is like every time you knock, you also felt a pull to not knock.
 I mean I sense that kind of expressive quality. 0:24:29.9
 I guess what troubles you is that you're really bothered that in a way you did want to see her.
 And what troubles you there, is it you don't know why or -
 You wanted to see her, or you don't understand that?
 It's like it feels flattering and really - I mean I really sense you like that really flattered feeling and being wanted. But what would that mean in terms of your life, it's like you're asking yourself.
 So that's what's pretty scary. Maybe scary's not the right word, but it's like - it's rocking the boat. And it's not like the boat just feels like it's solid and strong to begin with. You know how easy it is to rock it because, you know, it gets rocked inside yourself sometimes, you know, like the marriage is really right for you. 0:26:36.2
 You sensed it.
 Picked it up.
 It's still there.
 Yeah, I guess it kind of bothers you, it's because from what you're saying it's like in a way, you know, in a way you are really looking. It's like you aren't happy where you - you aren't happy where you are. And you are -
 It's like you are dissatisfied.
 You're afraid of losing it. 
 Your hand will have nothing in it.
 Again, I really sense like you're really caught in the middle of a real conflict, and the conflict is that you have something that just isn't satisfying and fulfilling, but you're afraid as hell to lose it, to give it up, because that'd mean you have nothing. But yet, it just isn't satisfying and you keep looking, in a way, maybe not overtly, you know. 
But it's like you are dissatisfied and you do look, but not in a wholehearted way. It's like you're really caught in the middle between that dissatisfaction with the relationship, take a few steps to look, but get afraid of - there could be nothing and you lose it. 0:32:48.3
 Yeah, what you're saying is, if I understand it, is like they kind of meet ego gratification needs, you know, being wanted, you know, being wanted in this other way too. Which I guess you don't get a lot (inaudible at 0:35:12.0).
 Say more about that, because I'm not sure - 
 You mean you - you know what it does to you, but you're going to turn it off?
 Yeah, it's like you really need it bad and really want it bad, you know, it can happen so easily because you really want it bad, but you got to kind of take steps to prevent it.
 You know, I really get the sense because you talk about this just like the need to be wanted, needed, wanted sexually, it's like - it's just not feeling satisfied in your marriage.
 What are you saying? It's like you want to be able to have that said concretely but don't have it with your wife. Is that what you're saying? Can you really just focus on my -
 Because I guess what I was sensing, like you really do - you do want to concretely know and feel that good feeling that comes from knowing (inaudible) in the world that you are wanted.
 You don't get that.
 You want it badly.
 Very much what you're saying is -
 Because you'd have it there but not from your wife.
 You know, what would that do to your relationship? That sounds very well what you mean. It's like - and that's why you want it from a client, because you're not getting it from your wife. But you want it very much from her but she's not giving it to you. She's not satisfying you that way. I mean, it's again the same thing of being caught in the middle of that conflict. You're dissatisfied with your wife and not being fulfilled, it's not fulfilling this need, but wanting to, but not letting yourself really take it because what would that do to your wife? You know, like you have with your wife. Well then your relationship with your wife would be even more fulfilling.
 How does it feel to you that you don't have that from your wife?
 You really want it very deeply, you know. You want it in your wife. It is your only wife and I sense a sadness that you don't have it.
 Yes, I know, it's - 
 You know, you hate that you really feel sorry for your father and didn't want that for yourself, but there it is.
You don't have that, you know, active, involved, feeling relationship. It's all pushed away. They're all suppressed, all these feelings.
 Angry at having gotten married and angry at her?
 She's your wife who you did marry. It's like you're marrying sort of cutoff yourself from realizing these things and from trying them out with other people.
 I'm going to remember you said about when you married your wife (inaudible at 0:51:18.8) some time after this rejection so you feel like, because part of it in there is kind of like maybe you felt unsure of yourself, you know, as a man, you can be attractive to women. Better get married while I can.
 This is the best I can do.
 This is the best I can get if it - the way I am.
 May not be great but, you know, it's something. And now you're saying that isn't enough, maybe I sold myself short too quickly.
 She really wants to stay in her corner -
 Give you the satisfaction.
 They become - maybe the little things become just the focal points for being satisfactions.
 I really kind of sense you're saying, well, it is something, like it was something when I got married, but is it the best something I can have? I mean maybe it's not the best something I want, it's not as just, you know, being as fulfilling as what I want and maybe I could do better. Maybe I could find something more satisfying, still unsure about that, too.
 You feel like you're being selfish about it?
 So kind of feel like when you evaluate your relationship, you do so in a selfish way or something. What have I got? What am I getting?
 [Get a sense of that assurance] (ph at 1:01:19.8) about what you want.
 Because it kind of seems kind of depressing when you think about the immensity of the decision anyway -
 And it's like the stakes seem so high.
 It's really scary.
 Your happiness into something you don't -
 It's like giving up something, or risking giving up something known, on the - which, you know, isn't satisfying, kind of putting that on the table and risking losing it all. (inaudible at 1:02:25.6).
Time's up.
 Interview seven, interview seven.
 You're not exactly sure why it is, but somehow it (inaudible) feel something strong pull you there like you don't want to be there.
 Kind of feel guilty, kind of trying to force yourself to (inaudible at [0:01:32.9]). And it kind of says to me kind of combination of confusion and feeling disturbed about dealing with the wanting to be close to him.
 About him, yeah. [0:02:54.7] 
 (inaudible).
 It kind of seemed like somewhat kind of innocuous to me, but yet it really had a big effect on him.
 That's kind of the expectation. I'm not exactly sure (inaudible) perfect, or . . .
 I kind of sense like right now as you talk about it, just angry kind of (inaudible) to him (inaudible) that he isn't to you. [0:05:56.2] 
 Somehow it's kind of like, I'm kind of having a hard time putting my finger on it, but there's some kind of disoriented feeling you've had like what is the relation - where is the relationship at, you know? Is it, is this a very shaky thing, or . . .
 I can't get it exactly.
 But it's kind of like something had been on your mind (inaudible).
 He was pulling away from you.
 Kind of like he comes to you and reaches out to you and you don't feel like reaching back to him. [0:09:00.0] 
 And then you feel like we share (ph).
 But you kind of asking yourself is kind of like you're saying to yourself, you know, I haven't felt responsive to him, like I haven't wanted to, you know, hug him, hold him, and he wants to hold me and that's something wrong in me, kind of feel guilty about that. I should  - 
 - selfish.
 Yeah, you're being cold to him; you're not responsive.
 It's really affecting him.
 Kind of directly affecting you, too.
 Yeah, you're not exactly sure what's coming. You should just kind of say this is the way I am and accept it (inaudible) me. Is that kind of . . .
 Is it kind of a thing like you're really torn between, you don't know if you should try, you know, like wait, you should try to take in all this. Well, this is the way I am, this is how I'm feeling at this moment on the one hand. Or else kind of is there something wrong with the way I'm feeling. Is it a lack in me.
 It's kind of like you don't really know how to look at it.
 Yeah. And what is, and like you kind of ask yourself what does this coldness mean? What does it mean in terms of me or what does it mean in terms of our relationship? Is it both of those?
 Kind of it's just kind of little (inaudible) in your feelings, but not something to judge a whole thing on.
 But I also sense it's not just you don't like it, but it's like . . . you know, like, you know, it's kind of bad. Not only does it create discomfort and affects him in the way he is towards you, makes him edgier, it makes it hard for you. 
But I also sense like, you know, you don't accept it just as kind of a slump but kind of asking something, what does it say about you? See, we're saying that. I'm not sure if that's still real for you, like does it mean I'm cold or unresponsive.
 And it's kind of disturbing to see it come up again.
 Going off.
 That sounds kind of like a bad kind of bond to be quote, "I'm not sure." I mean, is it real or do you think that's what happening or that's the motivation, his motivation, or do you think that's the way he's thinking about it?
 You mean he's just getting bored.
 It's kind of like after the heavy warm didn't come to you.
 Yeah, was it kind of like you knew something was missing. You just didn't get that kind of good feeling that comes from working something through.
 You kind of imparted in yourself to really want to desire to, like abstractly wanted to feel something. You knew something wasn't right, but you just couldn't do it.
 To get that kind of feeling.
 Don't feel inside yourself (inaudible at [0:17:19.9]).
 And I guess what's missing for you, why the conversation doesn't feel complete is because like what's missing is like the feeling of really wanting a hug. . .
 . . . capture. And that's what you wanted. [0:18:18.8] 
 Yeah, it wasn't like . . . yeah, I didn't come together. It's kind of like there was, like, you were going - it looked like it was complete, but it just didn't feel well inside yourself, a lot of loose ends.
 What did he say that was so (inaudible at [0:18:56.5]).
 There's kind of, the feeling there is kind of like in terms of caring, being sensitive, like you feel like you come away, and it's kind of like the feeling is kind of like you're being unrecognized, unappreciated kind of for what you have done and kind of how you have grown.
 It's kind of like you may not be as quick as he'd like, but he wasn't seeing it at all. [0:20:16.8] 
 That he was being, kind of felt he was being insensitive to seeing him not appreciating that.
 Yeah, but I can sure kind of see that kind of how it hurts because like the person you really care most about doesn't kind of see something that's really central in you and kind of something that's very kind of important to yourself inside, how you have done, and just not seeing that at all.
 Yeah. But he really laid into you, kind of tore you down. He didn't see where you were kind of had been (inaudible at [0:21:46.8]) grown.
 Fear that it would happen and that you'd do it or it would just happen, the breaking up would happen?
 It wasn't kind of any more specific than like who would be it or, just kind of a feeling like, you know, saying kind of springtime is traditionally hard times.
 And kind of like it's on your mind and it's on his mind, and don't either of you want that to happen. [0:23:00.4] 
 Kind of like that was a harbinger kind of calling down, going downhill.
 You mean for his criticisms (inaudible at [0:23:26.6]).
 True, some situational things but it misses a whole lot of you. That's not the essence of me those things that he criticized.
 And he was kind of talking like they were you, you know, that was you.
 Right.
 But it hurts.
 You just can't, it was kind of like you can't be just by saying.
 Yeah, it's kind of like there are things that he knows are true and you know are true, but it's not, that's not all they are. It's like there are things that you're very sensitive about and you really are making a damned hard attempt to work with. And it's kind of like taking the very area you're sensitive on and just kind of grinding into it, you know, just twisting.
 Right. You know them, and he knows you know them, but also that you're sensitive about them. [0:26:02.3] 
 Yeah, like where are his faults or he couldn't own up to the fact that there might have been some something in that.
 It was all then dumped on you.
 It's kind of like you had something about him not a terribly hurting thing, certainly not below the belt, but like in return for that you got hit below the belt.
 And you got it ground into you.
 Trying not to . . . [0:28:16.7] 
 Get out of hand (ph).
 Is the feeling kind of like, you know, (inaudible) kind of pounding at you (inaudible at [0:28:39.9]). Like it hurts, you know that. 
 It's just kind of like the main thing in it for you is kind of like (inaudible) feeling of being hurt.
 Yeah, being a nag or . . . [0:29:29.8] 
 Kind of to see yourself as a nag is pretty repugnant and he perceives you that way. [0:30:34.6] 
 You mean what is kind of . . . you mean like you say things but it's not leading to anything, is that what you mean?
 I guess you're right. I guess what I hear kind of common to all that is really just kind of a real general feeling of . . . it's not just dissatisfaction. It's kind of a combination of hurt and dissatisfaction, but still not kind of wanting it to be different but kind of not feeling clear as to - of knowing how to make it different where it will be different. [0:32:13.4] 
 Well, it's kind of, I don't know, maybe kind of what comes from it's clear that, you know, it's something you do have to work on.
 And kind of what the things are that are (inaudible) what was really hurtful about Sunday is that you weren't being seen as kind of the efforts you were making.
 Where's this (inaudible).
 Well, what does he tell you? Say in specific example.
 Yeah. I guess the (inaudible) exactly saying it, you know, maybe it's kind of like you are worried about it.
 You're kind of asking him over and over again is trying to ease that worry inside yourself . . .
 . . . get some kind of assurance that it isn't going to be that way, that it's going to be all right and that he's going to do it, you know. And kind of like hearing him say those words, I'll have money saved or you know, whatever, it's kind of like eases you, but it's kind of not the thing, the real thing, like it's not the money in the bank so to say. But it's at least some kind of a substitute for it, but it's an imperfect one so you need it over and over again because it is a worry for you. [0:35:56.9] 
 Yeah. It kind of sounds like that's certainly what we were just talking about.
 You worry about (inaudible at [0:36:37.6]).
 Yeah. But it's kind of, I guess the more general feeling kind of is that you do have doubts about him or facets of him.
 And they are still doubts despite what he says, and they're still there and doubtful inside yourself. 
 And kind of when he says that you don't trust him it's like he's right in some ways.
 Yeah. [0:39:34.5] 
 Yeah, it's kind of, are you asking yourself like is it distrust or is it right? I mean, is it justified? Is that what you're asking yourself?
 Like am I right to be distrustful or, like, is this something kind of that's legitimate or is it kind of a hang up in me. [0:40:27.3] 
 Yeah, because it kind of like (inaudible at [0:40:54.3]) legitimate. Maybe I just do it too much and it's kind of bad that I do.
 It says something bad about me.
 Yeah, but I guess the kind of thing there would be to take him figuratively but to be able to put a period on it and not to keep worrying about it like you do.
 Just having maybe to do that it's like you need to (inaudible).
 Kind of was the feeling like it's your standing over him kind of made him adjust his life or something?
 Kind of forces yourself into a just a position that feels kind of distasteful to you.
 Or you put yourself into it. That's the big question for you in a sense.
 Does he want you to do that? It sounds like he doesn't like it when you say what are you wearing those clothes for.
 But does he want you to play his mother? I mean, when you say that he sets himself for it, sometimes he acts like a kid, okay. But that doesn't necessarily mean that he wants you to be his mother. Do you see what I mean? Like he can put on his Sunday best to go play Frisbee, but that doesn't mean he wants you to be the mother. Do you see what I mean?
 Right. It's like he may say  - 
 It does, but I guess kind of like, you know, it does sound like a stupid thing and, you know, maybe in that sense, you know, he's doing stupid things, but the thing about it is that, you know, you're kind of taking it on yourself, it irritates you, and you have to say it's a stupid thing. And kind of that's where the problems begin.
 Well, it's kind of like, you know, I guess what you were suggesting it kind of like, he kind of puts me in the position or wants me to be his mother. [0:45:56.7] 
 It's not just as if he was suggesting to you well, maybe, you know. I don't know without suggesting to you well, maybe he indeed does childish things but that doesn't necessarily mean he wants you to be his mother.
 But when you see it, you take on that.
 You respond as the, what you call the head (inaudible at [0:46:24.5]), the motherly nag or, you know, whatever. That's kind of the way, that's the way you see that stuff. That's what it brings out in you. It gets irritating.
 Okay, let me just, let's just take that little example with the Frisbee, okay? Like the way you said it, like, it struck me, like, what you said like you said, you weren't saying oh, you idiot. You're putting on your, you said well, what did you - and your tone of voice was kind of like well, what are you doing that for?
 Yeah, but that's not exactly a straight way of saying it, you know. It has an implied, you know, what are you doing that for you idiot? It has, do you understand it has the idiot implied?
 You know, it would be different than saying gee, it's, you know, it's likely you'll fall down. You'll get those clothes muddy. Do you really want to do that? I mean, do you see what I mean?
 Which is a different way of saying the same thing, it's kind of a more neutral way of suggesting without the nag quality.
 Do you see? So it's kind of like you are, at least in that case.
 Yeah.
 Or showing your irritation, which is what nagging is, consists of. 
 It's like asking someone to do something but in an irritated way. [0:48:06.4] 
 Kind of showing your irritation more he'll know that (inaudible).
 Yeah, it's kind of like to not let it affect you. Well, it's not just using tone of voice, it's not to - your tone of voice comes from that it affects you, really rubs you.
 And that's kind of, you know, I guess it would be just kind of easier on yourself if you could just be more . . .
 Or do it yourself, but I guess kind of the feeling is you can't, you know, that's you, like, you know. 
 You know, what I'm saying that it's just kind of like kind of patience, you know.
 Yeah.
 But I guess the kind of feeling is that it just does really irritate you when he doesn't do those things.
 And you can't help but show it. 
 Okay, well let's (inaudible).
 Okay, now, the 1:00 time on Mondays  - 
 Is it 2:00?
 So where should we start?
 Oh no.
 Where would you get the Blue Cross from? Privately?
 I'm sorry it has been so complicated.
 I don't think there's a lot of thought involved.
 That's a lot of money.
[02:58.9]
 Yeah, I don't know about that.
 So you have to do that.
 But you have the number that will be on your temporary card? The number —
 Okay. But it seems like that's an important step to take is to make that phone call again. Write your number down because when you do go to the pharmacy, they can input your number into their system that verifies insurance. I would imagine that — I mean, when they take your card, all they're doing is copying down your number.
 It's a very frustrating process. I know there've been a lot of hurdles.
 I can understand wanting to.
 I'm assuming a lot more than if you continue through this process.
 If you're weighing the cost of therapy as part of your decision, just be aware that I'm not on the HMO for Blue Cross.
 The HMO uses a different provider panel.
 So you can use that for therapy, but you can't use it for me for therapy.
 You may be able to get permission from one of the state plans because they sometimes allow for continuation with an out-of-network therapist, whereas the Blue Cross won't have that loophole. Now, it's not a guarantee when you apply for permission to continue with a previous therapist through one of the state health care plans. You're not guaranteed [a response], but there's a possibility.
[07:11.7]
 I don't know. I mean, I don't know about that, what they — I don't know what's available for purchase or what the cost would be. PPOs are always more expensive than HMOs.
 (inaudible)
 Can you fax things in from copy shop downstairs?
 But there may be other places like that around that you could —
 You're going to get a letter from Work —
 — explaining that they're not offering you health insurance, so quitting doesn't do you anything different than getting that letter, except to deprive you of the money that you are making for your time there.
[10:16.6]
 You do know what to do. You keep plugging along. You wait. You request the letter. You asked for the letter. You send the letter in.
 But you don't have other choices. It's buy the Blue Cross or keep following the system, as convoluted as it is.
 And this is the system. It's a crappy system with these kinds of hurdles and loopholes and time delays. It's nothing to do with your deservedness.
[11:14.4]
 It's complicated to get it, and you need to keep plugging along. I don't know why it's complicated, but if you keep plugging along it should come through. I mean, there was a mistake in how they read what was available to you. They made an inaccurate assumption based on the fact that you have a part-time job.
 You've done the right things and it got — however they input things, it ticked off some box that said "employed" and now you're going back to verify exactly what that employment is and let them know that does not impact your eligibility. It's laborious but it's what you have to do.
 Or maybe work, will give you one on letterhead.
 You can only it one step at a time. Your next task was to get a letter explaining. You can only do one step at a time.
 You need to call.
 Is there a phone number on the letter so you can call and ask these questions to someone?
 Seems like maybe making a list of questions so that when you get someone on the phone, you can do your whole list of questions.
[16:34.0]
 Because I know sometimes getting to a real live person can be a process.
 And so you'll have to do that again. I would suggest sitting — before you make the phone call — sitting down and writing out your list of questions so that once you get a person on the phone, you can get all of them answered. You know, where do you get your scripts, how long is this good for, what do I do since I don't have an actual card. Those are some of the things I've heard you say thus far today.
 Okay, so then the other question is how do I find out what the network of therapists is, and what is the process for seeing someone out-of-network.
 Well, but you ask anyway.
 If they do it, it would not be an advertised benefit because it's a lot more expensive for them to cover someone out-of-network.
 What's the difference between Commonwealth Care and State Health?
 So if you can get Commonwealth Care, you don't really need State Health.
 It sounds like it's similar things for slightly different populations.
[19:35.3]
 Why are you coming to that conclusion?
 There is the option of transferring to somebody new, and there is also the option of getting on one of these insurance plans and paying for your therapy out-of-pocket and not everything else. If you're prepared to pay for a much more expensive plan, it may not actually be that much of a financial difference.
[21:35.6]
If you're thinking of paying $600 a month for an insurance plan, your therapy isn't going to be that much. It's going to be comparable.
 So let's take the next steps. Let's see what happens when you get your letter from Work.
 Why wouldn't you?
 So remind them.
 This is an important thing. This is something that you need from an employer. Just because it's a part-time employer does not mean that it's not important for you to get the letter that you need.
 It's not that difficult for them. It's important for you. It's something they need to cooperate with, and it's not that hard to produce a letter that says "We employ this person. She works this many hours per week. We do not offer health care for that." You're not asking them to write a 70-page thesis.
 And then you have to wait out the process and see what happens with your application to Commonwealth Care after that. Let's not jump seven steps ahead, assuming that it doesn't work.
 I know you don't.
 That seems like a very expensive way to get health insurance.
 Does this seem like a logical response to you?
 It seems like a lot of time and effort if you're thinking that it's too much effort to make a phone call. Writing a Ph.D. thesis seems like more.
 It seems like the challenge here is to navigate the insurance system, and this is a very creative solution to avoiding that.
 The purpose of the system is to insure people who don't have access to insurance through employment or education, and you do fit that criteria. So what's happened at this point is there is a misunderstanding.
[26:47.3]
They're thinking that you have access to insurance through Work. They're wrong, and you're going to give them the evidence for that. So I'm not yet willing to think it's impossible for you to get insurance. You are exactly the kind of person. You're in the position for what the system is created for. You're in between the gap of being a student insured through your education and employed and insured through your employer. This is why the system exists. It's complicated and it's time-intensive, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't work at all for you. You haven't exhausted the system yet.
[27:49.0]
 We don't know that those things have happened or are going to happen.
 You need to find out if they're covered, but it's not a personal decision. They don't decide that they don't feel like covering this person and we will cover this person. You find out. Either Klonopin is covered or it's not.
[28:50.9]
 And if it's covered on the plan, then it's covered on the plan. If it's not, you need it. But it's not a personal attack on your particular prescriptions. So there is probably a list somewhere that they can give you of what's covered and what's not so you can know, rather than making guesses out of fear.
 You don't have another choice right now, right? You don't have another choice at this moment. At this moment, some of your scripts are running low and you need them to be refilled. So you need to find out which ones are covered and to what degree and get what you need. Your parents have said that they're willing to pay for the things that are not covered.
 Well, we only have to deal with right now. You may not reach the "what" point. Jumping on ahead to what might happen next month —
 You're looking for things to increase your distress. They've told you they would pay. You're looking for ways to not believe them. I'm not sure why you're doing that.
 I know you don't like doing this stuff.
 I think it's something that you need to confront and get through until you get what you need. I know you don't like doing it, but you can do it. You can do things that are hard. You can do things that you don't like.
[31:59.8]
You're very capable of it, even though you don't like it. And you will feel much relieved when you have actual answers rather than imagining all the worst possible case scenarios. Even if some of the answers that you get confirm some of your fears, right now you're dealing with all of the imagined worst case scenario fears, and that's a lot.
 They're not going to prescribe medication for you, Georgia (sp?). I'm sure they have a list of what they cover, what they don't, and to what degree. But they're not going to tell you that you can't take a medication. They're going to tell you that they're going to pay for it or not pay for it, but your prescriptions come from your psychiatrist. You don't get to just make substitutions. Neither does the insurance company.
 Yeah. I mean, there very well may be certain medications that they cover or don't cover, but that's not a suggestion that you should take something different. That's a suggestion that you should pay for what they're not going to cover.
 With the money that your parents have offered to pay for your prescriptions if they're not covered by insurance.
[33:59.6]
Your parents have agreed to pay for that. Not for you to take it and put it towards something else. They've agreed to cover these things that you can't pay for right now.
 They might.
 Health insurance and health care does cost money.
 Who said that?
 And how much are you supposed to cost? What would be an okay expense?
 You're having a really hard time getting a job. That is true. What were your thoughts yesterday? You said when you found out, you started to have suicidal thoughts. What were they like?
[36:57.0]
 Are you contributing to Sydney's life?
 You give him a lot of support.
 Well, he's a part of society. You're helping another person because you're giving him a lot of support.
 Do you think people who buy stuff from your store enjoy your products?
 It might not be a lot, but you are impacting some things.
[38:02.2]
 At this part of the cycle, you're not making a lot of money but people are impacted by you and there may be a difference in the future.
 A different part of the cycle.
 That's a long way to jump. That's a 13-year jump.
[39:06.9]
 It just sounds like you're feeling really guilty.
 That's really their money to manage. You don't get to make decisions about what they spend when. I know you've asked for the help that you need, and they have agreed to give it to you.
[40:06.9]
It's really their responsibility to worry about whether a certain amount of money on prescriptions a month is feasible for them right now.
 If they say that, then we'll problem-solve together about what to do. But they haven't said that, and you don't know what you're going to need from them next month. It may be a very different picture next month. You may not have to worry about that piece.
You have to worry about what's going on right now and what are your options right now. What can you take control of right now. The pieces you have control over right now are figuring out where to get the scripts that are running out. You said the Klonopin is running really low. The others — where are you on those?
[41:08.3]
 I wonder can you get birth control from Planned Parenthood even less or is that the Planned Parenthood price?
 I'm not totally sure, but I know there's one in the Square that you might be able to get to pretty easily and find out. That might be a way to save a little bit. It would be worth it. I don't know if it's easier to do the phone call or the run out there for you, but —
[42:08.1]
 I'm not sure. It might be worth checking out. We can Google it, if I can get on here. (pause) I'm going to see if there's an easy answered question. (pause)
[43:15.9]
 "Birth control refill pickups are available anytime that we are open for the patch, pill, ring, prescription refills, emergency contraceptive, spermicide, lube, dental dams and free condoms." You can get one refill at a time if you are using health insurance to cover the cost of your prescription, but you would not be. (pause) You can also get pills by mail.
[44:06.5]
 "If you don't have insurance" — It says "If you don't have insurance, Commonwealth Care and State Health are free or low-cost insurance plans available to you. They will help you with questions for that." So one thing it doesn't say on here is how much it costs if you don't have insurance.
 Yeah. But it does seem like it's pretty easy. They are open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
 So that might be an option to help you feel like you're doing something to limit some of the cost for your parents.
 I know it's the least expensive, but maybe it can defray some of the responsibility.
 But it's also very important.
 Well, it seems like medication decisions about what you should take or how much you should take, I strongly feel they should be decided by how you feel, not by what it costs. If your parents were not willing to help at all and you had gone through the next round of insurance and it hadn't kicked in, then we could discuss that and you could discuss that with your psychiatrist if there were lower-cost options.
But it really does not seem that's the next logical step. Your health and your safety are really important. Yesterday you were having suicidal thoughts. It doesn't seem like now is the time to reduce the benefit of your medication. This is a stressful time.
 You have to. And your feelings and your symptoms are not punishments.
 I think one way to make it easier to deal with is to only look one step at a time, because when you start thinking about "If I do this and it doesn't work, what if? What if? What then next?" that's when you really start to get overwhelmed. So what I'd like you to do is take it one piece at a time because it's a lot less overwhelming. You can make one phone call. I know you don't like them, but you can do one phone call. And then you can do the next step. But when you start thinking about the next and the next and then the what-ifs, that's when you start to really feel hopeless.
[48:16.7]
So let's see if we can prevent some of that by looking only one step out. It seems to me like from talking today that the next step is to find out about really how you fill those scripts. So let's make that — you've already talked to Work, right? So you've already done that piece. So let's make that phone call to the Cobra and find out about the scripts and get that piece worked out.
 I imagine that you'll feel some relief when you feel like you're not three days away from not having what you need.
 Why don't we stop there for today. Let's schedule some follow-ups.
 Labor Day. I'm not here either.
 I have one in there if you want, or would you prefer an audiotape?
 Right, okay. I have this on extended play so it will go the full time and I'll give it to you. I ask, if people want to continue doing this that people bring me back the tape because I go through them at such a fast clip. Okay... So let me just look at this, this is a depression inventory, and I'll tell you, you have a thirteen which is within normal limits.
2:20
 Yeah, well let's begin by your telling me, in your own words, what's been the worst of it and what's brought you to treatment? 
 What church do you go to?
 He was?
 So this all came alive, all at once?
 Just take your time.  
2:25
 As you said: the wife, the mother... these were the glue. 
2:26
 That's a hard time...
 Yeah, this not liking yourself. And let me understand this, this has always been there.
 And as long as you're the wife or the mother or in the roles that were cut out for you, you felt some value 
being in those roles, some worth, so that could kind of seal over or cover over those basic feelings about yourself. Now those things, which were worthwhile and valuable have shifted and changed. And that was the glue, that was protecting you, wasn't it?
 From just facing yourself, and your feelings about yourself. And so, once those have changed, and the roles are not so clear, there you are. Afraid to be alone, facing yourself. We'll have to explore this and see what's going on. As you said, you've been there a long time. Can you give me an example of when you've felt bad about yourself, when you noted it? You said you probably noted in earlier on and it probably came up in this relationship. But whatever comes to mind.
 What did she say?
 What did you say?
 And how did she respond?
 Was it at all soothing?
 Was it heartfelt when she said it?
 So she did mean it. But somehow she has feelings that are sealed over too.
 Because if you said she still didn't mean it and was being critical that would be quite different.
 So she did mean it, all right. But there's two things going on here, one is you can see a child's sense of self, growing up, can get shame attached to it. And if the parents' responses are absent of reassurance or affirmation... and there's another piece. You said you had to get out of there, had to walk out the door, that you were afraid.  
2:32
 Well, lets just slow down a moment and just think about it. At that moment when you're sitting there, and you think about it. [patient closes eyes and thinks] Does it make you angry?
 How do you experience the anger? How do you know you're angry?
 These are hard questions, and usually aren't asked. We don't label our inner experience so well.
 Mmm. So you clench your jaw.
 Breathe harder...
 You tighten up inside. Is there anything else? I don't have any specific answers.
 So... Clench your jaw.
 And your fist. [they laugh]
 That's interesting. "not like toward her" but who are you mad at? 
 Oh, you. Are you really?
 That's precisely what you're here to find out, isn't it? But logically, who were you mad at.
 Right. But look how quickly... you kind of go like this [motions hand outward] toward her, kind of like this [places hands on chest] and then I ask you and you say it's you. So there's this kind of boomerang.
 Your mother does something that's shaming- in the sense that its not reassuring its not affirming. You have a lot of shame. [patient sighs] but you also have a lot of healthy anger comes up and then it is felt on yourself to a certain degree. You had a very mature and appropriate response. I was just thinking about you going out, talking to her and so forth, but we're just walking through. And I want you to pay attention for a minute to the physiological arousal. You said breathing harder, and there's some kind of energy there. And you had a fist, so there's energy there. 
 But you said "clenching of your jaw and tightening." 
 Your body's tightening. Now what's that, is that anger?
 Yeah... Exactly, that's what its doing. And so at the same time you're having this rush of feeling, you rein yourself in.
 Right, right. So you learned well, and early to rein your feelings in. 
 So, you know, that often puts a person in a constant battle with themselves. Because life happens, your mother says something, you have a natural reaction of not liking it, you have to rein yourself in. Thank goodness you said something, but so often we have a natural reaction to just rein ourselves. And then the turmoil is inside. I said "who are you mad at?" and you said "me." The child feels it as all on them. So... finish your thought. I didn't know if I was [interrupting.]
 And that comes up here. As we're talking about this.  
2:37
 Yeah... So it sounds like you're angry with him. What was your last goodbye with him or what was happened with him like around his death?
 Did you know he was dying for a while?
 Really? So they discovered it and then he died ten days later in the hospital. How did you learn about his death? 
 Oh my goodness, how awful. That was my spontaneous reaction. Was that awful for you?
 It brings up some sadness for you right now.
 Yeah. And what was it like? 
2:38
 And what's underneath that anger?
 And for young girls heart there's such a craving for that, isn't there? 
 Did he ever show it at all to you?
 Really... he was that removed. Not even a tender moment?
 Uh-huh.
 Did you ever try to reach him? 
 Did you ever make things or give him a gift?
 Yeah. How heartbreaking.
Segment 3 of 6Date: 1997-1-03Time:  12:39 to 12:49
 His daughters.
 You're the oldest.
 Uh-huh. And so it was clear that he was proud of you. 
 Or showing.
 Sure he did... What makes you know, makes you sure he loved you, even though he didn't say it or show it.
 And just as he didn't show love, he didn't show hate or dislike or... So again, the sealed over feeling. So much is hidden, what a tragedy. Because usually in a life there is pull and focus and there's some memories.
 And a moment of tenderness here or there.
 He wasn't ever there. He was at work all the time.
 But no real rapport with your father.
 No rapport... That's... extreme, isn't it?
 Well, it's an extreme of a loving father. A basically decent man who works hard and takes care of his family, but its so barren, what you describe. I hear these stories all the time of different kinds of problems but... Was there any difference between you and any of your siblings? Was he able to relate to his son at all? 
2:43
 And then in contrast to your mother. How was she growing up? I know there was some problems there obviously.
 That's very insightful, to be able to stand back and look at yourself like that. 
2:45
 So you had to kind of lead her by the nose and say "notice me, here I am."
 Right, and what a child craves is to see the face light up without saying "please" in effect. And as adults we inevitably have to teach people what we need. But at least in childhood it wouldn't be nuts to at least have some shared joy or recognition. You're an awfully strong child to notice those things and say "Mom, look."
2:46
 Yeah that's so sad. She was better than him.
 It makes me wonder if [he?] had a tragedy [unintell.]
 And I wonder if you didn't try hard when you were that big and just gave up. Because you spring from the womb trying. You know how children cry for the parent or run up. 
2:47
 Has that been helpful?
 Okay. What's been the focus in that treatment? 
 So [unintell]. But we know right off from what we've said thus far, that your parents aren't reflecting far back, you're not mirroring again and again and again. Your father-
2:51
 Well, your relationship with your father was much more distant...
 ...than with your mother. You're going to have different reactions from men and women. 
 I think that's harder for a mother- for a single mother, that's very hard. With adolescent boys.
 Does that make it a little easier for you?
 So, getting back to your sense of self- you said you were probably better with him early on, and I wonder if your parents were able to be tender with the two of you, more so when you were very young. Three of you. [therapist corrects herself] Because you [had?] a lot of strength.
 Did you ever notice him with your brother?
 With the baby? Not at all. Such a caricature.
 Uh-huh. And he died.
 So he gave you the birds and bees talk, really? Rather than your mother?
 You've lost your chance to be my father.
 I hear some some sadness in that?
 Yeah, your face looks so sad, brimming over. 
2:55
 ...you had so much anger covering up all that longing. Was it really too late?
 Yeah...
 Well, that's something we're going to have to look at but after so many years of distance, look at the anger. "He lost his chance to be my father." And then he died two years later.  
2:56
 Yeah... And did he look at you?
 Uh-huh. 
 What feelings stand out?
 Uh-huh, sure. You had no practice. But if we just stay with that right now, how would you have liked to accept those feelings?
 Yeah... You needed to have a father and have him here. What was in you? So let's hear what would you have wanted to say if you could have just let it out, let all those feelings out. So let's start with the surface. You wanted to tell him how mad you were.
 But that's what came up now, let's just stay with it. 
2:58
 It's a struggle when you haven't had practice, when you've been denied. But that's what I'm here for. Let's just stay with it. Because it just bubbled right up- "I would have wanted to tell him how angry I was." Can you imagine his face right here?
 Yeah, he would have been. But he's a trial lawyer- he's a tough guy. It really doesn't matter what he would have thought or felt at a trial.
 In what way?
 So, in that situation sure, but you might have gotten closer too for having done that. Stay with the feelings- right now you're acting like a parent, you're protecting him you see? Poor dad... but if you were on your deathbed and your son had never told you how angry he was about whatever, would you want him to just give that to you? 
 Exactly. And I wonder if somewhere in your father he could have risen to the occasion. I'm kind of struck that he struggled- as un-fatherly as he was he took his responsibility and talked about the birds and bees which must have been torturous-
 ...because he couldn't deal with feelings. 
Segment 5 of 6Date: 1997-1-03Time: 12:59 to 13:09
 Yeah...but you might be surprised. If kids are allowed to just pour it out. 
3:01
 But you just have an understanding of this. Why weren't you there? What would he have said? Imagine his face while you were there. Were you sitting by the bed or by the bed...
 You were standing. Would you be touching him? 
 No, why not?
 You didn't do touching?
 What would you want to do in terms of touching if you were there? Would you want to grab his arm? What's in you? Let's just look at those feelings, there's been so much that's been stuffed for so long. 
 There's something in you. There's a great deal of energy there.
 Of course that's what you'd want to do- shake him.
 And what would have been appropriate at that moment? There is some shaking you wanted to do.
 Wake up...
 What do think if you were shaking your father- as a fantasy-  
3:03
 Did you ever see your father angry?
 Did he hit you?
 Yeah... So he didn't lose his temper in a destructive way. 
3:04
 But he would yell and say "be quiet!" And what would his face look like when he would do that?
 Right. So do you think he would get angry then? If you shook him and said "wake up, I'm here! Why is there such a gap between us?" 
 Yes. That's probably what he'd sound like.
 So your response would be that's not what I needed. So imagine his face, something in his face on his deathbed looking at you. 
3:05
 In a way. But in a way that's your blocking, because you...
 You conveyed that so much. His eyes looked sad. What words do you think would be in his heart if he had idea let them out. You're an adult now, you've had children, what words would he have by the look on his face because faces reveal so much? 
 Yeah, you hope that's what was in him. And something in his face- you saw some yearning, and you remember him saying he loved you. Some hint of wishing for more.
 Yeah.
 You were still mad, ad so the anger at this tragic moment. Here is this moment, and the young girl there is still angry. I guess your father, near death, might have been able to reach out, and maybe I that time you put the wall up.
 How were you with him. How did you keep that wall up?
 Yeah, just not showing anything. What does a kid know? You just do what you're told.
 Yeah. And so did you tell him you loved him?
 Yeah. 
 And then you realize how much anger there was.
 Right, yeah. The anger is distance. Anger can be used all kinds of way, and there is legitimate anger at a distant parent. And then there's the use of anger to distance, when you're really longing for someone. And what I'm hearing is you didn't use the anger in the hospital to distance. You were feeling it deep down but what you used was some kind of walled off, unemotional stance to put a big barrier between at a moment when he might have been reachable. And no fault of your own there, its just a tragic thing. The child doesn't know. 
Segment 6 of 6Date: 1997-1-03Time: 13:09 to 13:19
 That's not been my experience.
 But it does take a sorting through of the feelings.
 And that's what we're doing now.  
3:11
 It felt like some love, let's put the right words on it, and tremendous longing in you for him. And on his deathbed he was projecting something to you. And he did form some words before he died. And how hard I wonder was that for him to, after a lifetime of not being [unintell]. [pauses] Where are your thoughts going now? 
3:13
 That's just such a tragedy, that the culture teaches such repression of feelings. That he had to die before he can say "I love you." 
3:14
 You think he had said it before. 
 Or the mother filling in the blanks. 
 I was just thinking sometimes mothers help their children to read someone's love when it comes [broken?] 
 Did she ever say how proud your father was of you, or these kinds of things? 
3:15
 Yeah, I wonder... There are fathers who do not care about their children and they turn their backs on them and they go off and do things. And if that's the case that has to be faced and grieved. But what I'm hearing is a repressed, hard-working father.
 Everything kind of dies and shrivels up.  
3:16
 So there was something stirring in there.
 So he gave you a feeling you weren't living up to expectations. 
 How did he do that? Both of them do that?
 But somehow you weren't good enough. That's an awful way to feel.
 Yeah... 
 With your kids you mean? 
 Of you?
 I see. That's all you need.
 That's what you've lived with your whole life. So we need to come back to your father, but let's see how that plays out with Burt and see if that sheds some light on some of your response patterns, but take it back to your father because it sounds like you've played it out in the current time. Like you're just pulling the past forward. Does it seem so?
 This is interview number five.
 That's fine.
 So it was almost like you were doomed to this end. You clawed your way out.
 It was so freaky because you just exploded out of nowhere?
 Just out of nowhere. Like you're kind of out of control.
 So now you're thinking, "Why on earth did I do that? Maybe it might happen again."
 Yeah, it sounds like you weren't important.
 Mm-hmm. For being angry.
 How do you feel about that right now? I mean, can you get into that? How do you feel him, not being able to talk to him, about getting angry and all that? 
 He would come to you and you didn't like that. Do you know why? [6:39]
 (inaudible at 6:57) part of the game. 
 "What's he pulling me into this for? On top of that, he's trying to make me against her."
 And then you're going to get so far away from them that they can't to you, or something like that.
 So all that tension and conflict hanging in the air.
 Would you kind of like to make up for it?
 That's true. You've been really cut off and isolated from them. 
 It just kept going. You weren't good enough.
 Always not quite good enough, but they didn't care enough to push you.
 That's where you were left, right?
 They didn't care enough to find out why. They didn't care enough to discuss things with you. [13:22]
 But you needed somebody to push you.
 I'm having trouble getting a sense of what's real for you right now about that. I sort of feel like you're telling me about it or something. Where are you with it?
 Or with Charlie. I mean, I'm having trouble getting a hold of that. If it were me, it would be, "If sex wasn't so lousy right now," or "I want it to go here or there and I can't do that." Where are you? [17:56]
 So holding back...you're not sure about that?
 Mm-hmm. Right now? 
 Someone to protect him?
 And it's like before...you don't want to let it out or something like that?
 How could somebody else be a child when you both are children already?
 So you want to do that for him.
 That was hard to tell him.
 Was it embarrassing or something?
 He doesn't like that and it's kind of embarrassing to tell him that?
 He wants you to be active.
 Is that...have you checked that out with him or is that (inaudible at 28:17)?
 Yeah. Not only did he have to go to work while you sat home, when you sat home, you didn't do anything.
 And he keeps making you do two things.
 So it is like you really resent serving him or something like that. You're not getting anything out of it. You're just like a maid sometimes.
 The part of it that really...I mean, it's not the mothering him that bothers you. It's something like you're not getting anything out of it or having him force you to do it or demanding you do it, or something like that.
 It's like already a put-down. 
 Like he really puts you on the line there. You've got to justify yourself for him.
 It sounds like you always have to measure up or something. That's not what marriage is about. [33:45]
 Always somebody imposing something on you that you didn't want to do. 
 Like, you've got to be your own person in that. Why should people lay their stuff on you? 
 Who should be the protector? [35:56]
 As you're watching yourself, you feel like you should be different. Being different would be not so high-strung and not out-of-control... like that? 
 And then he tells you that's not any good.
 And never do anything else?
 (inaudible at 39:34)
 Too emotionally involved...you'd get too upset from the work?
 I see.
 Yeah, I see. It's like you just keep practicing at everything, but just can't your (inaudible at 41:15) back.
 Yeah. Face up to them.
 You're really afraid of losing him.
 It's hard. Then you might find out he would leave.
 Yeah. It's like you're just waiting for a thunderstorm. You don't have any control over it.
 So now you see these little troubles he's having and that might be what's coming before (inaudible at 47:09).
 Then he'd just go and you would be left.
 It's not the end of the world. You can manage. On the other hand, there's something that you're saying...it's almost like you are just waiting for it to happen. I mean it's like assuming that you have no control over what's happening now...like you're just letting it go until kaboom!
 What is the point? (inaudible at 49:24)
 Can you feel yourself in that right now and try and get back in it and when it was there was the point there? [50:09]
 Because it was really mixed up when you first got married?
 You could have chosen somebody else and you weren't quite sure if Charlie was right and you were thinking...
 It's like it was all wrong from the beginning. Now maybe you're just finding that out.
 There are a lot of doubts in it.
 Yeah. You really don't know where it's going. If you're not sure what it is, then it's even harder to hang on to.
 Like how to start, you mean?
 Because it's so big and so much of it is kind of crazy or something. 
 Because you have all this stuff to say, but you don't know where to start. So it has to just sort of jump out in little ways.
 I didn't quite get that. You're picking at him, then you think you did the wrong thing by marrying him? You can confirm that. The fact that you're having to nag at him is like a confirmation that it wasn't right in the first place.
 The drinking?
 So it's really tough to hold down the nagging.
 Hi! Come on in.
(background noise)
 It's hot outside?
 That's quite a statement.
 That's quite a statement.
 Like what? [00:08:32]
 Well usually if you're lubricated it's a symptom of being aroused.
 I'm not sure of the violent part.
 Well it's interesting. I don't think those two are necessarily tied. I think people can be aroused and still feel very timid or anxious. One is more physiologic and one is more emotional. Sometimes they go together that when you're aroused you feel sort of more open but not necessarily. They are pathways that are related but not always the same and sometimes being aroused makes people feel anxious.
 It doesn't take much to tap into your sense of inadequacy.
 I don't think so.
 Are you not sure what I mean?
 That it gets triggered in a lot of different situations like you can't make photocopies here. It gets triggered (pause) across a lot of contexts.
 It sounds like you felt she was saying to you, "You're not good enough to be here."
 I think a lot of people admire people who go into creative endeavors.
 Do you think you feel guilty when you're in the limelight?
 Well, I don't know. (pause) I guess I was listening to the story you told as your obligation trumped your success or your recognition and so I guess that's why I said that, that somehow you'd feel guilty. That somehow you weren't meeting your obligation by fulfilling your own interests and dreams.
 Well I think you have an image of yourself that doesn't incorporate all the complexity. I don't know if it's not accurate because I'm sure there are ways in which you are fearless. [00:22:49]
 I should give examples?
 Because you doubt yourself?
 Because you doubt yourself?
 When you say examples, you came up with the idea that inside you felt fearless. So I'm sure that there are ways in which there, in a sense, are examples in your mind. But you ask me for examples. 
 I think about the distinction between speaking the truth and speaking truthfully. There's often not one truth so speaking the truth is a very particular way of looking at things and sort of we are. But speaking truthfully is very different.
(pause)
 Yes.
 What were you going to say?
 How do you feel you [have an] (ph) exaggerated sense?
 Why are you getting another MFA?
 Wouldn't as you have more time to just focus on what you want to do if you weren't in class?
 Is that a question?
 I'm struck by your feeling that you don't have the answers.
 You got quiet.
 Is that when you stop talking that just a lot comes to mind quickly?
 Why not?
 You want to keep that sadness inside?
 What would happen if you let that sadness out?
 To what end? [00:43:33]
 Well what you just said is his business is a way for him to deny or oppress what he's feeling.
 Is that what it means to be happy, to distract yourself?
 You want a more expansive life than he has.
 Expansive, not expensive.
 You complain a lot that you feel it's boring to be with him. There's so many things that are cut off, so many experiences that are cut off and not appreciated in their fullness and that's one of the things that you've talked about wanting, that you worry he won't be able to provide because he's a different kind of person.
 He was busy. [00:46:09]
 Cecelia we need to stop for today okay? So I'll see you on Monday.
 Yes. Take care!
 Bye bye!
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, I was just looking for them this morning. Obviously somebody finished them and they don't have any in the main  -
 So I can't really accommodate. Sorry.
 It's a good metaphor.
 They're getting there. We're getting there. Should have been actually done last Friday.
 Yeah  -
 Next Friday it looks like it's going to be done by itself.
 Somehow you discount the importance of the element.
 Right, right, right.
 Yes, groundwork.
 Right.
 As opposed to what  -
 A vendetta against her?
 Faith.
 So that was the real example of being assertive and - [11:56]
 Yeah.
 Yeah, even in the context of just communicating things to people, not just in the context of finishing a project that obviously does implications for that.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Like self-respect really.
 Respecting your feelings about something.
 Well, I imagine I mean she certainly has a control not 'til - not knowing what's going on in here. [16:01]
 Probably uncomfortable.
 What do you imagine will happen, though, in terms of your relationship with her as you become, you know, a person - more respectful of yourself and then more assertive? What do you imagine is going to happen?
 Yeah. I guess she could - the scenario that comes to my mind is that she could respond well to you being more assertive and maybe hear you better and maybe, you know - and if she sees you as an adolescent maybe that will make inroads in terms of that view, then maybe, maybe not, you know. Maybe she'll bristle at the idea of you becoming stronger and be threatened by that. So maybe there are more possibilities as well. But that probably was a good sign that she responded well to your being assertive, and that's sort of an indication that being assertive can also be a positive thing for the other person because they can hear you better. [17:44]
 Well, imagine you're talking to Kathy and say, well - it would be helpful to close your eyes - say exactly that as if Kathy were here.
 What's your reaction to that? How do you feel about that? [19:59]
 So it doesn't feel right to you.
 Well, what's wrong with it do you think? You said tepid; what do you mean?
 So it's something about making excuses.
 Yeah, that sounds reasonable.
 So that's it, fruit of the tree, tied like a knot. I don't really feel that there's -
 Yeah, I was a little concerned at the end of the session because, you know, I thought it was important what we went through. And my concern was that having this insight and seeing, you know, how you had difficulty starting with me, about something we were doing, I was afraid that you were becoming a little self-critical about the inside; like, oh, look at me, I can't even assert in here, and that was my concern. [22:20]
 You mean it becomes self-fulfilling? [23:58]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You need to - not know what to do.
 That's good. I think you know - I can tell just from the way you're talking it's sort of like looking for like strategies and sort of some kind of - I don't know if it's path but something like a pathway to proceed and not certainly what self help books propose or to present. And I think it's more important for you to sort of look to yourself and work on yourself and I think that the answers will emerge after you progress with your own issues. I think that's more important. [28:14]
 Even if you look at the past week and how you handled this particular project I mean that emerged from in you inside and just to work, just to push through, and not to procrastinate and, try to say, that emerged.
 Within you really.
 Right, right.
 That's good, yeah. Yeah, I think it's important that you look to yourself for the answers more and more. I get a tendency sometimes you'll ask me, and I think looking for self-help books is a way and the same type of thing.
 Right, right. I guess I'm talking more about what do you think or do you think that's a good idea, which strikes me as sort of looking for some like confirmation that you're doing the right thing, what you should be doing. We talk about we don't do that too much, talk about what would be the right thing for you to do.
 His priorities.
 You know, I've heard that one.
 You know, it is essential; it's not a matter of being right or wrong, it's just having a right, a different type of right, to say things.
 I think it's going to be also an ongoing - I don't think it's, you know, something that's, you know, (clicking fingers) okay. So it will be - at this point it seems like that's a major scene and that's something that we should just keep working towards and working on. So there's no answer in terms of where do we go? In other words, it's sort of skirting that one. [34:00]
 But we'll both stay here.
 Really?
 Right, right, uh-huh.
 (Laughing)
 So you're just sort of blank on that one.
 How do you feel about when I said it's like no natural like stuff or I don't get the point and you say, okay now do this?
 You see it at this point is that there's no -
 So you're not disappointed or  -
 Yeah, I'm not trying to impose a feeling on you, I'm just wondering if you're like being protective of me like you would with Kathy.
 So what about your self-critical side? (Inaudible at 43:56)
 So you think that was an over-compensation. You've actually not done so good about yourself and you've been sort of arrogant about the possibility of  -
 I'd love you to.
 They haven't been realized really.
 That's great.
 Well, you're self-critical.
 Two things sort of occurred to me, were coming out. I think there's an important difference between being confident and being arrogant, or obstinate I guess. And there's a difference between - I'm making these distinctions - you can put it in any other words you want to - critical and analytical. And I'm trying to figure out why you did something versus being critical of it, and I think that's an important distinction that you need to become more aware of. You understand why I'm doing that?
 So it's a thought; end on those.
 I mean you struggle to sort of become more aware of  -
 [Useful prophecy notes] (ph), what went on for you and what's sort of self-critical.
 Right, financially.
 Reward.
 That takes a lot of faith.
 - lack of faith (chuckling).
 Financial - yeah.
 But there's productive channeling of that faith and seems like - think with you sort of felt that you'd been diluting yourself in a way and I think by distracting yourself with different projects it hasn't been a productive use of that faith; it sort of does become more hobby-like than the occasional  -
 Yeah, there may be some truth in her observations in terms of how you're - I mean she's also thinking that all of these projects are intrinsically hobbies.
 But I think where there is truth may be in terms of how you are approaching them and not so much the project. [52:01]
 Profession.
 Okay.
 So it sort of assignment to focus on self-critical some, because I think it's pretty insidious in there. You've just begun to become aware of that.
 There's this awareness of - yeah. I mean there's knowing you're self-critical. Then there's knowing the reaches of it and how insidious it really is and how it's really infiltrated all different ways of being and I think that's a different type of awareness. One is more like global awareness; the other is a more subtle awareness, an in-the-moment awareness, which we talked about Session 1.
 I struggled giving you a -
 No, no. Where I struggled giving you an example, because I felt like that's something you'll understand, as you develop that awareness, or the awareness to try to describe.
 True, true.
 Well, it ain't over 'til it's over. [56:01]
 You know? I mean the flip side is you could be 80 years old and not have done anything and now you've got about 40 years or so.
 Yeah, that's the other side of it as well, that's true.
 Right, right.
 Right, right.
 Okay, Don.
 [PATIENT NAME] how have you been doing?
 Mm-hmm. 
 Okay. You want to tell me about it?
  Well, try to fill me in.
 Uh-huh. Want to tell me about that?
 Mm-hmm, why do you feel that way?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Tell me some more about that.
 Mm-hmm. Why was that?
 Mm-hmm. And mean, why, there must have been some reason.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 There’s always a difference when…
 Tell me about that
 So you, you’re about a year older than she is?
 Feels kind of embarrassing for you.
 Why?
 Mm-hmm. She really made a big difference between the two of you?
 Tell me some more about growing up.
 She got all the attention.
 But there wasn’t much difference in your ages?
 Paid you attention.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Okay, some more about growing up.
 Now, you mentioned that you had uh, gotten raped.
 How old were you at the time?
 Mm-hmm.
 What happened?
 He gave you attention.
 Mm-hmm.
 He asked you for sex?
 How old was he?
 Was he much older than you?
 Mm-hmm.
 One time?
 Now, were you a virgin?
 Hmm, what, what happened then?
 Who found out you were pregnant?
 He said what?
 But I mean you were a virgin girl. Okay.
 So he tried to deny it?
 How did your family-
 How did your family react to it?
 Why?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Okay, then what happened?
 What you mean for a long time?
 You did see him?
 Did he pay support?
 Why?
 Things have been really difficult for you.
 He, he wasn’t interested in seeing the child?
 Mm-hmm. How old was she then?
 And that was the first time you ever seen him?
 [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah, what, what about his side of the family, what?
 What you mean by that?
 Mm-hmm. 
 So you couldn’t really enjoy the experience.
 Mm-hmm.
 What kind of relationship did you have with your daddy?
 How often would he be around?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 What do you mean?
 Confusing.
 Mm-hmm. 
 Oh, you do?
 Because she’s nice?
 Okay, now, tell me about the medicine. 
 Medical appointments?
 Mm-hmm.
 What time did you take the medicine?
 On average?
 So you’re taking it real late? Okay. 
 Mm-hmm. Yeah, I mean, you take it so late at night. 
 Well, let’s start taking it about seven o’clock.
 Mm-hmm. You’re taking it really late at night. Okay what else has been going on?
 Why don’t you tell me about that?
 You what?
 Ready to settle down, how old is he?
 Mm-hmm. 
 And you’re afraid to trust him, now? Why?
 You have problems with that.
 You’ve been burned too many times.
 Okay. Is this the only time you’ve raped?
 When was that?
 Oh, this would be earlier?
 How were you able to stop him?
 Oh, he wasn’t as big as this guy?
 You were able to fight him off?
 Okay. Okay, all right, well any questions you want to ask me?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, what we’ll need to do is adjust the medicine a little better to try to get it working a little better, you want to tell me a little bit about the hallucinations, have they gotten any better at all?
 Well, you going to tell me about them?
 When does this occur?
 So, I mean is it during the day? 
 At night? 
 Okay. 
 Mm-hmm. You kind of see things in the corner of your eye and then you turn and…
 Mm-hmm that’s pretty frightening isn’t it?
 Mind playing tricks on you. 
 We’ll try to get that better under control.
 Okay dear, well we’ll keep you like we’re doing, and we’ll get you rescheduled too, see if [INAUDIBLE] medicine [INAUDIBLE]. All right, any other questions?
 Yeah, we’ll that’s what I’m saying, we’ll try to get the medicine adjusted to work a little better. 
 All right.
 Mm-hmm, that’s what I’m saying. We want to take them one at a time.
 Interview 6. Interview 6
 I don't know why. Fridays should be good days.
 That's okay. 
 I noticed. 
 For going in?
 Did you kind of go in on some kind of (overlapping voices) 00:01:53
 But you really kind of felt bad (overlapping voices)
 Just for going in like...? Why? You felt a lot (inaudible) to walk past it.
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 I'm not a psychiatrist. I'm a psychologist. 
 Psychiatrists are people with medical degrees.
 Psychologists are, you know, psychology. Don't have a, you know, medical..... 
 That's not the point.
 The point.....
 Yeah, the point (inaudible) you just couldn't even tell them that. 
 Like if they'd be as open minded about (inaudible)
 Yeah. There's some people you can (inaudible) your family (inaudible) you feel like you're just really (inaudible)
 Ask a whole lot of questions.
 What does this really mean?
 But you'd rather....it kind of is a curiosity.
 Let me...let me go back to this...this thing that (inaudible)
 When you say you felt this....really kind of disappointing to someone, can you say more about it? Because I sense as you were telling me about it (inaudible) like you felt uncomfortable (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) similar to the way that the other thing.... (00:06:40)
 The intentions were there but it didn't get acted. 
 But like (inaudible) feel guilty about your intentions. 
 (inaudible) just wish that you didn't have those intentions and act on them. 
 (inaudible) probably would feel guilty but it's...kind of...because then you can feel guilty about (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 It's like you have to own up to it.
 Somehow you feel like you'd be different. You could handle it inside yourself. It's kind of like some kind of conscience for yourself (inaudible)
 And you're really kind of a....feel very....you really have a strong sense of conscience about your...about homosexuality. Kind of just....even (inaudible) intention (inaudible) (00:10:01)
 When you say it's weird...I guess it's more than just weird. Kind of really (inaudible) kind of a lot of...kind of psychological tearing (ph) inside yourself. (inaudible) causes your anguish and suffering. (inaudible) 
 Intentions for (inaudible) really come through (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) pretty lonesome (inaudible) 
 You just kind of wish you didn't have (inaudible) 
 It's kind of like...yeah, it's kind of like it's not he kind of thing where the way to get rid of your tensions is just to shut them off. It's kind of replace them with others. 
 But yet you know, you can kind of say like you can really see yourself doing (inaudible)
 See because I don't understand. It's kind of like you can see yourself doing it but yet you get pulled back the other way. And I'm wondering kind of...isn't that going to make it...make it kind of.....
 Worse. 
 Right. Kind of maybe more the thing to do is kind of, you know, this is what I want to do, and do it. 
 (inaudible) 
 And you're causing yourself more anguish and you felt enough of it and it's kept you enough away from (inaudible) Do you see what I mean?
 Kind of like....like let's say you had a (inaudible) like you think you would if (inaudible) most likely the person who (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 Yeah, kind of you should be with her to keep from going out (inaudible) 
 Just probably feel more guilty and probably (inaudible) more with Tanya.
 Yeah, because it's something you know. 
 (inaudible) something you know (inaudible) it makes you feel lousy too. You know, relieved physically (inaudible) 
 It's kind of knowing well, that I'm just thinking that you could really try and look I'm (inaudible) 
 You know (inaudible) it could certain (inaudible) even having good (inaudible) 
 And you're probably making it harder.
 Of course it (overlapping voices)
 I know but it's...but it the easiest (overlapping voices) 
 But, well the point is if the easiest road were right for you, like if you felt like, you know, when you told me that there's homosexuals (inaudible) 
 Then you know that would be fine. But that's not the way you feel.
 What...the right road for you is, you know, what you feel is right. It's kind of like it's a harder road, you know, have sex with (inaudible) but it sounds like the road, the other road makes you feel lousy but by god, for myself, I should just struggle...struggle with the hard (inaudible) 
 Good things don't come easy, as the saying goes. (00:15:44)
 I'm making you feel guilty? 
 It's like, you know, it's kind of like you can pretend not to know anything about him just (inaudible) 
 Yeah, you know, you have feelings about him.
 And it does affect the way you live your life. (inaudible) possibility, you know, to have sexual relationships. 
 (inaudible) Homosexual?
 It's kind of really been a struggle.
 Kind of like you haven't quite done it. (inaudible) because you know (inaudible)
 No it also may be because you haven't quite...quite done it and....I've lost what I was going to say but the problem maybe in, you know, because you don't kind of feel as well along on (inaudible) heterosexual as you might be.
 The thing there (inaudible) is kind of to work in that area. 
 (inaudible) 
 How are you feeling?
 (inaudible) kind of feel the same. 
 Are you kind of feeling....
 Feeling sorry that yourself.... kind of like why do I have this problem? (00:19:56)
 (inaudible) 
 But you know you're also in a position to do something about it. 
 You know, if you really don't want to go to a bar (inaudible) homosexual issues, you're in a position as you said you really believe strongly (inaudible) doing pretty....pretty good. If you really want heterosexual relationships....that's harder (inaudible) just you have to try it.
 Kind of seems like just such a whole lot of work and such a struggle you just wish you could (overlapping voices) a switch and (inaudible) 
 Good things (inaudible) 00:21:33
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) what do you...how do you feel about it all?
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 You know, and I guess you (inaudible) 
 I mean I think the thing to do is just (inaudible) resist temptation (inaudible) Know it (inaudible) you don't know how it's going to come out and maybe you don't exactly know what you want to do (overlapping voices) 
 (inaudible) 
 This your older sister?
 (inaudible) 
 (Inaudible) scary or...
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 Are you feeling kind of down (inaudible) kind of ashamed (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 Kind of this (inaudible) not just (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) depressed.
 (inaudible) makes me think (inaudible) maybe hard (inaudible) there are rewards (inaudible)
 It's okay with me. 
 And, you were telling me you want to sort out your medications today.  Have a seat.  Let me move this seat around so there is a little bit more comfortable.
 And you can park your walker right there.
 Have you been going to work?
 You have to stay back?  How come?
 You were tired?
 You were crying?  Why?
 Your blood pressure was up?
 Let me see if the, uh, if your primary doctor wrote anything in your chart about that.
 I'm not sure who is, uh, who is knocking, but I want to see to have some privacy.  Yeah, it doesn't look like it's anybody who needs to come in right away.
 Yeah, because we want a private place where we could meet.
 The medicine doesn't help?
 I, I thought that the Geodon was agreeing with you very well.
 Huh.  Because they were looking at low blood pressure.
 You don't think so?
 Well, let me see what they've been working with on that.
 I'll review all medication with you.
 Yeah, well, let's see.
 Because, when we decided on the Geodon -
 That was partly -
 Well, we can certainly look at alternatives.
 There was a situation -
 Well, we'll see.  Because there was a situation that had -
 [INAUDIBLE].  He said no?
 No more on the Geodon, exactly?
 Okay.  What about the other ones we've tried?  This -
 Does something stand out as better?
 All right, we can see.
 We can see.
 You were doing well with it because you were taking it with food.
 What about, okay, [PATIENT NAME], don't change the subject completely.  You know that Celexa, 10 mg, you can take it in the morning -
 You're feeling like having a break from everything aren't you?
 Well -
 I would be willing to talk with your primary doctor about finding the right combination of things.
 Let me see.  Let me see what we've got going on.
 Okay.
 And I know the doctor was looking at your nutrition.
 Your calicum.
 Yeah, I don't want to make you cry.
 Okay.
 Okay, I would be happy to talk with him about something that might sit, sit best with you.
 Um-hum.
 He's looking at your thyroid too.  I see that.
 They're talking about an operation?
 Are you sure?
 Can I tell you the good news?
 Listen to this.  This is your blood work from [DATE], so that's earlier this month.  It's fantastic.  Your cholesterol is 199, very good.
 We can certainly talk about it, but I will tell you that in terms of your metabolic status -
 It's good.
 Because we want to keep you at a minimum, you're just on 2 things, the Geodon, which is the main thing.
 And some of the Celexa.
 Well, we'll put our heads together and we'll find something that works better, okay?  Let me just finish telling you, blood sugar, great, 92.
 Yeah, cholesterol, good triglycerides, good thyroid.
 And a good blood count.
 Um-hum, calcium is back to normal, excellent.
 Um-hum.
 And your weight has been holding steady -
 For the last couple of years.
 Well, you have every reason to celebrate.
 You don't like the blood pressure?
 Okay.  Well, I don't see anything on here for blood pressure at this point.  That's odd.
 For your kidneys?
 Ah.
 Okay.
 For your kidneys.
 Oh, I don't want that to happen.
 You know what I think makes the most sense?  Is for me to talk with your primary doctor about exactly what's going on with your kidneys, and if there's anything that needs to be adjusted, we -
 No, it's okay.
 We'll just all work together.  It's all right.  You're doing a great job explaining how you're feeling.  That's good.
 The cholesterol medicine?
 The kidney pill.
 I'm trying to figure out which one it is because I'm not seeing anything that I would usually think of for your kidneys.
 Okay.
 Ah-ha, I see it.  It's the oxybutynin, yes, the Ditropan.  I see what you're talking about.
 Okay.  All right.
 I'm going to talk to your doctor about that then.
 I'll say that's bothering you, yeah.  I see what you're talking about.
 Yeah, and you have the Zantac for the upset stomach.
 Right, okay.  But, that's okay?
 All right.  All right, now, sorry, it took me a few minutes to figure that out.  It was in a different section of the chart than I expected.
 Yeah, that's got to be really frustrating.
 Well, of course not.
 All right.  Well, we will certainly work on that.  Now, aside from that, are you sleeping okay?
 All right, that's good.  So, at least that's under control.
 Good.  Good, and you're keeping your weight nice and steady.  That's excellent.  You're very petite, so your weight is just exactly right.
 Yes.  Good.  Good.  You've been doing everything right.
 Yep, you have been doing all the right stuff.  That is for sure.
 Okey dokey.  Yeah, I've been looking at your weight and your blood pressure measurements over the last couple of years -
 I did, thanks.  How about you?
 Oh, that's nice.
 Oh, wow.
 Now that the weather is nicer, it's easier to get around, but today is really hot.
 What's that, hon?
 Yeah, [DEIDENTIFIED], yeah.
 Yes, that's a beautiful setting.  That's where you spend most of your day, right?
 Yeah, that's excellent.
 Yeah.  I think [DEIDENTIFIED] is nicer than [DEIDENTIFIED].
 What's that, hon?
 Any extra paper?  I might be able to find you, what about, oh, look at these pictures.
 [DEIDENTIFIED] in [DEIDENTIFIED].  You looking for a blank piece?
 Okay, yeah, I'll, oh, here some.  How about this?  It's, it's a memo pad.  Would that be okay?
 If I give you a couple pieces of that?  That would be fine.
 What's that, hon?
 Ah, here you go.  Well, thank you very, very much for talking with me today.  And we can, you know try to understand better about medicines, and how they work together, and how we talk about them.
 Yeah, this is really, oh, you want a kind with lines?
 Let me see if I can find you a blank one with lines.  Every so often, there's one left in the chart that still has lines on it.  Are you going to be writing a letter?
 Yeah, let's see, every so often, yea, I found a blank one.
 There you go, my dear.
 How's that?  That's good.
 There are the lines.
 That's excellent.
 Well, this is the only kind I have.  Yeah, I don't have a tablet with me like, you know, where you can tear off the top.  I have some order sheets, but I don't think those would do you much good.
 Yeah.
 The only thing that's like a tablet is this little memo pad.
 Would that be okay?
 All right.
 I'll take some of these off.
 We'll split the difference.  Well, somebody took their own notes on it, so I want them to be sure that they have theirs.
 Because that probably reminds them.  All right, I'll take a look.  Oh, it's locked.  So, I'll tell you what -
 Here's a tablet.
 How about that?  See, it's perfect, and you can even lean on the back because it's nice and firm.
 It's got some cardboard back there.
 That's adorable.  Did you get that for Easter?
 Oh, you won it in Bingo.
 Ah, that's really nice.
 Oh, that's a little change purse you can put on your, uh, on your keys.
 That's very cheerful to look at that little smiley face change purse.
 Oh, that's so nice.
 Oh, wow.
 What happened?
 When you came back from Easter?
 Oh, today.  Okay.
 You look great now, though.  It looks like you got all completely changed, and showered, and everything.
 Yes.  It looks like your gastroenterology doctor is looking into, you know, trying to find things that agree with you and help keep you, you know, with a calm stomach.
 There's also a little tummy bug going around called Norovirus.
 So, quite a few people, this is the [DEIDENTIFIED] in [DEIDENTIFIED] and it looks like maybe this one, because look, here's one with the, all the, vegetables in the basket.  Isn't that nice?
 I think that's an extra, so you could have that.
 Yeah, that's the [DEIDENTIFIED].  Huh.
 Yeah, we haven't had a chance to catch up in a while.  It has been a couple of weeks.
 Oh yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's a nice group of people.
 Why not?
 Yeah?
 They're pretty friendly, I think.
 They don't?
 Could she be hard of hearing?
 When was that?
 Oh, wow.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, [NAME OTHER].
 Wow.
 Have you been feeling unsteady on your feet since then?
 Oh, my goodness.
 Wow.  You're doing great with your range of motion now though.
 Sure.
 Yeah.  How is it now?  Is it still hurting?
 Oh, my goodness.
 Yes.  Absolutely I will.
 Um-hum, yep.  It's all through [DEIDENTIFIED], that's true.
 When was the last time when you had any chest pain?
 Last Valentine's Day?  Just, uh, like 2 months ago in February?
 Oh, okay.
 Yeah.
 And that's when your doctor checked you out with the heart tracing and everything, right?
 He just wanted to make sure.
 Oh, two pot pies?
 So maybe, um, your reflux kicked up a little bit, you know, the acid.  But, they still check the heart tracing, just to be absolutely sure, just to be on the safe side.
 Yeah.  Well, you, it was smart you got that checked out.
 Meals?
 Oh, ginger ale, I don't think so.  I haven't seen any food or drink in this office.
 Would they have any out front if you wanted to ask?
 Yeah.  You might, they might have some extra.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Oh yeah, like, yeah, I saw you get the milk shake supplements, that's very good.
 Really?  What's your favorite flavor?
 They could really improve the flavors on some of those.
 I'm okay, thank you.  Thank you for asking though.
 Oh, yeah?
 Oh, that's nice.  What kind of soda is your favorite?
 A Coke?
 A Diet Coke?  Very good.
 Yeah.
 I think just by, uh, by having worked here for so many years.
 I think his name is [NAME OTHER], yeah.
 Oh, that's so nice.
 Yeah, it's a good staff, it's a good group.
 Oh, [LAUGHING], that's nice.
 It's always nice to have somebody looking out for you.
 Yeah.
 I think just through working here all these years.  Sooner or later, you cross paths with most people.
 Just by working here.
 I don't know his last name, but I'm pretty sure it's [NAME OTHER].
 Yep.
 Yeah, for some years I think.
 Yeah, he took you to the hospital that time?
 Okay, good.  So, you got some help with that.
 Um-hum.
 Which ones?
 You're very smart to keep on top of that.
 You may have had a brush with that virus.  A lot of people are having some of that.
 Yeah.  People are also noticing sometimes a little bit of congestion with it too.  Do you have any nose congestion?
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 I'm not sure.
 Oh, wow.
 You're going bowling?
 No kidding?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 What's that?
 When will you have blood work again?
 It doesn't need to be for a little while because you just had it at the beginning of this month, and it was fantastic.
 Did you get all purple?
 Oh, I'm sorry.  I'm sorry to hear that.
 Oh.
 Right.
 Just from working here all this time.  Most definitely.
 Yeah, she works on the night shift, I think.
 Yeah.
 I don't think today, but I think she might be on tomorrow.
 Really?
 Um-hum.
 Did you?
 Is it still black and blue under there?
 Well, from the point of view from the Geodon, considering how good your blood test results look -
 I'm not, I'm not really sure.
 Yeah.
 I don't know.  I know your doctors are, are arranging your medication and your diet pretty carefully, but I think you can have some.
 Yeah?
 I think it's especially now that you might be having a little brush with that virus going around.
 Yeah.
 We could see if they have any more, you know, anything else for you to drink.  You know, there's that nice drinking fountain out front.
 Would you want some of that?  They might have ginger ale.  I think sugar free ginger ale would be especially good.
 You do sound a little bit dry.
 Did you get paid today?
 Yeah, [NAME OTHER] has been here for a while, hasn't he?
 Gosh, everybody has been moving around.  They, they relocated a lot of people recently.
 Yeah, there has been.  There's not only the Norovirus, but there's also the swine flu, so we need to look out for that for sure.
 I don't think you have to have one if you don't want to.
 Besides, I think that you just had, um, a shower when you came back from work, right?
 Yeah.
 That's such a beautiful watch.
 Oh, it's beautiful.
 Oh, that's a beautiful bracelet, too.  And your watch is a great design because it has big numbers you can see.
 You can't find them?  I wonder if somebody else put that in their closet by mistake?
 Oh, you're smart to wear the layers because as the day gets warmer, you can take off the extra layers.  And, uh -
 And they're, it's good that they're cotton because they breathe well in this weather.
 Yeah.
 About a month ago?
 Um, well, let's see, Christmas was about 5 months ago, I guess.
 Yeah.
 Right, right, exactly.  And then, um, you mentioned Valentine's Day, which was a couple months ago, and then Christmas was a couple months before that.
 Um-hum.
 So, how about if you and I check back in about a month, you know, I'll talk with your primary doctor.  We'll see what we can work with a better balance of your medicine so that you're more comfortable, and -
 Oh my gosh.
 [DATE].  Yeah.
 Well, I think, let's see, [DATE], so you're [AGE], right?  You'll be [AGE] this year.
 The jubilee, I'm not sure.
 That's a good question.
 Are they chapped?
 You have some moisturizing lotion ordered.  Do you want to put some on?
 Yeah.  Let's go out to the front and get it.  Okay?  All right.  I'll shut this off, here.  Thank you very much.
 This is actually a recording.  I'll just keep it there.  Go ahead and uh, tell me what's uh, going on.
 Uh-huh
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.  Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.  Because uh, you know, it uh, worked, uh, uh, uh, quite well, uh, for uh, several months, you know, it started uh, seeing some uh, physical and emotional improvements.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, um-hum.
 Yeah, um-hum.
 Yeah, um-hum.
 Yeah.  When uh, when did you really start uh, seeing uh the deterioration uh, uh, of uh, the back?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  And ah, when was the last time uh, you know, and x-ray or an MRI, or uh something like that was done?
 Um-hum.  When was the last time you had a complete blood work to see whether to, yknow, there are any other things, uh, uh that are uh affecting.
 Okay.  And uh, maybe, you know something that uh, we can do, is uh, some blood work, some organic work up.
 Uh, and uh, uh, you are at an age where uh, you know, we have uh, keep track of uh, the prostate.
 As uh, in uh, acting out also, sometimes, uh, you know, the uh, it's rather innocuous, the rate in presents and uh, then uh, you know, it will have uh, significant, uh, uh, in, uh, uh arthritis of the big bones, uh, especially this found and all that.
 So, let's see what we can do.  Given all that, uh, uh, you know, you said you are a little more depressed then usual.
 And uh, how would you uh, sort of symptom, uh, wise, how would you, uh, express that, uh?
 Like interest in life, interest in doing things?
 Yeah, um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum. 
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum
 Um-hum.  You have difficulty sleeping uh?
 Um-hum.
  Um-hum.  Yeah.
 And uh, is that, uh, going to sleep or staying asleep, or uh, uh, you know, waking up too soon, or waking up too many times?
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.  And uh, how bout, uh, like uh, you know, now, going to family gatherings, or uh, church, and uh, other activities, uh, you, uh, seem to have some interest uh, in that, or uh?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Okay.
 Yeah, and uh, uh recently had any uh, family gathering after the [DATE]?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Is that right, huh?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, was it uh, one of the places that you used to go to in uh, your -.
 Younger years?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Is that right?
 Okay, that sounds real good.  And uh, have uh, you know, at least uh, there are, uh, some uh, bright spots.
 Ah, in the, uh, you know, entire scenario that uh, uh, but I guess with the, given uh, your physical condition, uh, that uh, sometimes uh, you know, uh, you have ah, to sort of suffer the pain and bear the consequences and all that.  Um, now um, um, uh, have you been uh, eating good, uh, uh?
 Lost or, uh, gained any weight?
 Uh-huh.  Do you know approximately how much weigh right now?
 And um, uh, any other things going on, like uh, any hallucinations or vivid dreams, nightmares, uh, uh, recollection of events, uh, you know, uh, unpleasant events in life?
 Okay.  Uh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, okay.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 I think, uh, what we need is a, a primary care and an orthopedic surgeon uh, take a look at it, and uh, see what uh, uh, you know, uh, needs to be, uh, done here, uh, to get uh, you know the pain under control.  Uh, and uh..
 See what uh, you know, what can be done.  Um, uh, any other things uh, that uh, you can't tell, uh, uh, as far as the medications are concerned?
 Okay, [INAUDIBLE] And uh, any side effects from the medications?
 Geodon, yeah.
 Is that right?  Okay.
 Yeah, Okay.  Well, uh, you know the, of course some of this medications can do that, and uh, um, uh, other than uh, lethargy, did you, uh, like anxiety wise, uh, do you see any improvement uh because the Geodon has a significant impact on uh, anxiety?
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Okay, all right.
 Uh-huh.  Okay.
 Yeah, and uh, that is uh, also called an activation factors, that uh, Geodon also has, you know, the, uh, some people who have uh, uh, some anxiety, it can uh, sort of unmask that, and uh, bring it to the surface.  Uh, so it's called activation effect.  So maybe there's uh, something that uh, uh, you know, you experienced is uh, you don't need, need to take the Geodon anymore.  Because, uh, um, uh since we have given almost a month's trial, uh, so.  Uh, and uh, as far as the other medications have concerned, have you seen anything out of the ordinary?  Okay
  All right and uh, ah, you take uh, uh, Cymbalta, and?
 Yes, okay.
 Is there Seroquel? 
 Okay.
 All right, and um, uh, any other things you can tell?
 Um.
 Um.
 Um-hum
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Well, uh, let's uh, um, you know, uh, get some blood work done.  Okay?  See where there's uh, there are any uh, uh, things uh, that we can uh, look at it, uh, uh, from the medical point of view other than, you know, the MRI, and uh, the, x-ray of your back.  Uh, cause they, you know, there are uh, any uh, underlying conditions uh, that may also add, uh, uh, into your uh, current situation.  Uh, let's uh, see what we can come up.  Okay?  Okay.  And uh, uh, if uh, ha, looking at all these things, the, how do you see yourself uh, uh six months from now?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, looks like, uh, you know, just like uh, you know, ups and downs in life, uh, you know, this is something that uh, uh, you know you have to uh, seeing uh, you know, there are, uh, uh, at least uh, you know, in the last uh, well, four, five months you had uh, pretty good, uh, uh, uh, time, as far as, uh, depression is concerned, as far as uh, uh, yknow, your ability to, uh, looking at it in optimistic, uh, uh, in uh, really, but uh, better things will come, come.  Uh, so I guess we have to see how good we can, uh, yknow, uh, maybe uh, look at things with a little bit of uh, medical it -
 Thing.  Okay, so, so let's se what we can do.
 I'm going to turn the recorder off.
 Tell me [PATIENT NAME] how you've been doing.
 So you've been still dealing with depression.  How long now you say?
 Like what?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 He keeps you going, huh?
 So you used to be pretty active, huh?
 Started out with the pain and now it's —
 A depression, huh?
 But you've been on, like, before you came to me your family doctor did put you on antidepressants, right —
 How long have you been on it though?
 All right, it doesn't seem to be doing much is it?
 You're not going to church or nothing —
 Used to be, right?
 Hm.
 Mm.
 Been crying a lot even, or is it because you're crying, you're talking about it right now is that making you cry —
 Or you are like this even at home?
 You don't like to be around people?
 How is your sleep?
 Is there any family history of depression or no?
 What do you mean illegal?
 Illegal in what sense, what you worried about?
 Is the comment doing drugs or something?
 I hope not.
 Oh —
 You are seriously thinking about killing yourself or anything?
 What's the, what, have you been trying or?
 How would you do it?
 And the only thing that stops you is what?  Your son?
 Good the main reason you feel that is because you can't kind of provide for your he, son like you used to, cannot give him time like you used to —
 And it's lots to do with the depression and the pain.
 All right —
 Well let me explain to you.  We are addressing you depression, we will try to give you something hopefully that will work just right and you will start feeling better.  Now the pain you already have taking, you are trying to take care of it —
 Just like your carpal tunnel —
 You have been operated on recently so that's good.  For a backache of course, you know —
 I understand —
 I understand that.  So co, what I'm trying to tell you that, yes it's not rare.  Yes it is bad for you and how old are you now?
 [AGE] you're very young and you have a 60 more years in front of you and you want to have some understanding, you're in pain, you have the, your presentably depressed, you were an independent woman at one time.
 You took a pride and taking care of yourself and your children and taking care of you, you have a good work track record.
 So, so far you have done well except for this injury that probably doing work you [INAUDIBLE] whatever and that's not good, but it's there and thank God for medicine that we are trying to get something done.  Surgically they're going to correct hopefully with your carpal tunnel so that leaves you with feeling a little better.
 Back ache, you, you've not been even address so maybe you, who knows?  They might be able to address your back problem and there may be something that can be done, okay?
 All these things only can be done if you are alive, you have a chance, right?  If you go six foot under you lost all the chances of getting better.  Are you with me?  Are you with me?  Does that make any sense?  Yes?  Do we have night, every night is a dark night?  Doesn't the sun follow that?  You have rainy days every day?  Don't feel bright sunshiny days afterwards, but then we have a dark night, and think "Oh my God look at that it's so dark."  And we cannot think about the sun that time can we?  But the sun comes up, right?
 And you have, I mean you've done such a good job of raising your son.  He's getting the awards so, so you are contributing some for this nice young man who can be, you, before you know it he'll be a nice young responsible man.  So you want to survive, you want to do the best you can.  You may think you're not a good mom, ask him.  Think about yourself, would you want your life without your mom?  Don't you think "Oh my, my mom can take care of my son now and I'm going to leave me son with her."  So don't you want to be a dependable mom like you are having, you are thinking about?  Your mom, your sister, right?
 And I know it's a, when you are in pain, when you don't see any doors open, you just have to keep on praying, there will be some place left for you at the end of the road they'll be looking up for you.  Just, but you only have those, those chances if you are alive.  Right?  Running away from problem is a cowardly up living, is it?  This, is not that selfish when you are thinking about "Oh I'm going to kill myself or die and my son can be taken care of by."  It's a good thought, but it, really think about it.  You're running away from problem aren't you?
 Is that being fair for him?
 Right?  And I know I, not, not fair, but everybody don't get a fair deal in life.  Easy for me to say, I'm sure you are in pain.  You are suffering and you are not doing good.  That's totally understandable.  That's why people like us try to help you with medicine, try to give you some hopes, maybe I'll, I'll have you, did you talk to my counselor here or no?
 I'm going to refer you to her.  Come and talk to her, okay?  It will help, okay?  You only have chance of going on with your life if you stay six foot above.  Once you go down, I don't come down to help you do I?  Nobody does do they —
 That's gone.
 I know —
 I understand that, I mean I'm not saying don't feel bad and, um, you should feel bad.  Yes, you are in pain.  Yes you should feel you are not what you use to do, but think about what you have so you don't have, we understand.  You are in pain?  Yes.  You are not able to work?  Yes.  That's bad.  There are so, still many things you have, you have a lot of love in your heart for your son, that's not killed yet is it?
 Right?
 So you have lots of good things in you, you know?  Good Lord has provided you with two eyes, two legs, you are still able to walk, you are still able to remember you are in pain, you're still able to use your hands.  There are lots of things, go, look at the people who are worse off than you are.  And then you going to appreciate your problem, but otherwise suicide is a cowardly, of running away from problem.  I hate to say that word, but that's the fact I'm telling you right now.  I've been in this practice for 35 y, 30 years maybe, a little over 30 years.  Longer than you've been on this earth.
 [LAUGHING].  But I'm telling you, you know, I have seen people who have committed suicide.  I have, in my practice.  Yes.  I have seen their families after they kill them self, I have seen the families whose, you know, both mom, dad, husbands have and you don't want to know what a pain and agony and guilt they live through.  So yeah I, you may check out from this world and for you maybe problem is ended, but that, you don't know the second generation of problem begins which may be worse.  Are you with me?  Huh?  Your son is doing good, [AGE], got awards, he's doing good in school.  So those are the positive things, concentrate on that.  Feel good about it.  How many single parents would have done a good of a job like you thought you have done so you don't see what you have done.  You're just looking at what you can't and it's not by choice you are doing it.  It's not like you are turning to drugs and alcohol and doing all —
 You're not ruining your life it's, it's just a, it's unfortunate thing that happened to you.
 It's okay to cry about it, it's okay to get mad about it.
 But I'm checking out from this world, come on.  We can do better than that.  Don't you think —
 But, you know?
 I know.
 But we, you, the, the big question why, I know things happen.  Once we accept, now he said to me once we accept this is how it is, the next step you will deal with it.  It's not going to change, your backache is not going to go away.  Your hands, now they're carpal tunnel, they are operating on you hopefully that will get a little better.  Why things happen?  There is no answer.  Nobody yet has been able to figure out why things happen.  Why —
 Yeah things happens to good people, nobody has yet been able to figure it out.  But when we compromise and when we accept that this is the way it is, I have to deal with it.  Yes I'm not able to do this, yes I'm not able to look at my son, you know, he's, he, he can always look back, even though you may not think that you are not useful, ask him how much he feels secure that his mom is there.  That security has million dollar worth.  Just mere fact that you are there is a lot.  Ask him.  It's okay, you don't have to be running tag with him and chase with him and play tennis with him  It's okay.  If you are not able to do it that's okay.  When he plays tennis you can go sit and cheer him up, you can do that with him out.  Can you not with your expression.  When he gets an award you can go and sit whenever it's possible.  Are you, okay we're not able to go running forever, when he came home I'm sure you put your arms around him and said "I'm proud of you."  That means a lot to him than a million, million other people could be telling him how good he is.  The approval that mom and dad can give, nobody can.  Trust me.  I've been in this business for a long to tell you this.  So really when you are thinking of suicide it's not all, no good to him that "I'm going to check out."  You are still thinking selfishly and I hate to tell you this, you are selfish [INAUDIBLE] you want to run away from problem, no.  Be there so when they [INAUDIBLE] evaluate your back, maybe they'll give you some back medicine for your pain.  You are applying for Social Security, hopefully that will go through.  You will able to support him and give him your moral support if not physical.  Right?
 So are, are we going to think like that?
 And anyway gets really bad, okay.  I'm going to refer you to my counselor.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
 What?
 Eleventh, I think. Yes because I was suppose to take this report.
 Sure, do you want me to do that right now?
 I can do it now. It'll take a few minutes.
 It's...
 I mean this is going to take me all of two minutes.
 Okay, well then I'm glad to do this for you.
 They'll ask for your check actually. Okay. So what I'm looking for is all the appointments after April 1st? [00:02:12]
 I'm sorry, April 10th. Okay.
 Okay. Let's see, so, all right, so you - this is going to require a little math.
 No, no. All right so that's for June, so June is all set. And then the premium - I guess it's not hard for me to figure out what appointments were after April 10th. What I have to figure out is when I started, what I started billing you for. So you had written me one check for $150, another check for $1200, so $1200 would've been the previous 12 appointments before June 1st. Well I'll tell you that May, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, ...
 11, 12. Yes, so that's all of May. And you wrote me another check for $150, maybe that was co-pay.
 So that would've been...
 So we're looking for between May 10th - after April 10th and before May 2nd?
 Okay, that 19 to 25 and 26 and the 30th. So that's one, two, three, four.
 Yes.
 Is that all you needed to know?
 You start with a new product.
 Well that should be pretty easy for you so if it's - it's Blue Cross?
 I generally take that view of insurance. I'm pretty optimistic about this one. I'm back in Blue Cross' network, which I'm in until the end of December I think. I mean I'll decide to leave then I think. And so when we're recording you don't have to pay a co-pay and if I'm in-networked you're unlikely to have a deductible but you might.
 Very painful? [00:06:22]
 I do appreciate that it isn't simple that way. That if it was as simple as, even if it's difficult in the low range you tell somebody some upsetting thing about how you feel, you kind of bite your nails to see if they're going to collapse. They don't, it feels good you got it off your chest. You feel better. You see that they're okay and it's a win. I understand... [00:10:14]
 That would be nice but that's not how it is. It sounds more like your reaction to that is to feel very terrible about yourself afterwards.
 I think one thing that I hear when you say you don't know what else to do is that you can't bear how you feel. And I think unconsciously that when you are sort of presenting somebody such as the old [inaudible at 00:14:01] people in your life with a what do I do question, some of what you want is help feeling better or more accurately probably, bearing how badly you feel. And then when we don't help with that, I think it becomes [inaudible at 00:15:02] overwhelming.
 Well you've got more pain than you can bear. [00:16:00]
 Is it?
 Yes, I would imagine you feel pretty completely immersed in this now.
 I guess I could imagine you feel like you're being kind of destructive to me in feeling like this is impossible or you're impossible in some way. [00:30:59]
 How do I seem optimistic?
 How come? [00:34:54]
 Yes, I think one aspect of I guess depression if you want to call it that or the problems that you're having is that you are having - and maybe you can't make full relationships now. I don't mean you don't have the skills for it or you're not committed in lots of ways but...
 There's a lot you feel - and I'm not saying inaccurately - that you have to leave out.
 Well I think you're sort of compartmentalizing or looking in a way to have the part of the relationship here that you are not being able to have elsewhere, which I think is also worrisome. The impression is your worry is too dependent or too close or it will pull you away from your other relationships in some kind of a [00:41:26] fashion.
 Yes, right. [00:43:45]
 Like pretty much misery and horror?
 We should stop for now. [inaudible at 00:46:08]
 This is Interview number four. Interview number four on Tuesday,. 
(Inaudible at 0:17)
 When it was out in the open and (not everything) (ph) like that you could take it? 
 Did the talk cause the tension?
 So you mean such as things as change through talking to each other? They haven't changed there too? 
 Then you would feel that he was maybe inadequate or that I - definitely maybe this would be something that was just going to go on forever and never change? So either you put him down or else you make him feel like it's pretty hopeless.
 And that's just because they seem strange to you?
 Stuck you mean in trying to change the way you feel?
 What we talked about?
 Remembering that they was even more? To tell?
 I'm sorry. 
(Phone Conversation)
 Should we open those windows?
 You mean you've forgotten that about John?
 Oh! Ridiculous.
(Phone Conversation)
 Like you were using him as the only reason? And there's more to it than that?
 You tell him that you're?
 And you were saying somehow you were just blaming it on him instead of saying (it belonged to you) (ph) in general.
 Yeah if you don't tell him that. Like it's always a secret. It's hard.
 By him you mean?
 But you're saying because you feel guilty? All of the sudden it feels like he's hearing you in a way that isn't right?
 Can you give me more of an idea of what you mean?
 So like there you are and you might end up in bed with this guy? And you think maybe he - John knows that that's what's happening?
 Giving yourself away by being seductive?
 So that you have this desire all the time? And it's just you sort of keep it bottled up most of the time other and are really cheerful.
 Really in a brink?
 What is it sort of scary or something because you can't figure out what it is?
 And then you like if you really were free like that and you could just make it with anybody and you wouldn't have to worry you'd be tied all of the time thinking you were going to expose anybody.
 So like on one hand you really want John because that's faith and warmth and you care about each other. But on the other hand you'd really like to be free and loose and acting on this desire you have.
 You feel protected by John? [24:25]
 That every time you got free something terrible happened and then you got tied again? [26:25]
 You won't have any choice? Your feeling that you think that you can't make up your mind ahead of time you let it happen and then it's out of your hands? [29:47]
 It's like no matter how hard -scary it is to be pregnant. It's even scarier to be left alone. 
 What is it about that that you're so afraid of?
 But you're saying you're kind of different from everybody ... or something.
 Is it like people would look down on you for thinking you don't want to have children?
 That would be a whole different world if you had a child with you. 
 You think somehow you would mess the child up? You just wouldn't be a good mother. As long as you feel that way that (inaudible at 34:29) pregnant.
 Yeah. What is that? I mean can you get more into it? Like too much responsibility? That would be something I would think with you know you. [36:32] 
 Well it's something like you wouldn't be able to committed enough.
 It's like there's this big gap in there.
 Had someone (inaudible at 38:12). But what I'm hearing is like since you've never had a close relationship with John I think that where you felt that you'd be really giving yourself to him and you really cared about him then it's sort of inconceivable that you could have that for a child. [38:29]
 It's like that that (inaudible at 40:00) Yeah it makes it hard to conceive of taking care of a baby.
 So the way you are now you'd just never be able to do that is what you're saying. Some things have sort of gone down hill and you're just not in shape to (inaudible at 40:34)
 Like it's really hard to pull yourself out.
 Yeah. It's like this is a really - like you're really down right now. (You want to be back up again) (ph).
 How do you feel about that? I mean does it seem sort of alright to you or?
 (Actually you would to change) (ph)?
 Like the kids you wanted to adopt? Like so (there's lots of things that deprived you from like taking them in) (ph)?
 So it's just like experience or practice you mean?
 Yeah. 
 I didn't get that. What?
 Yeah. It sounds like home is a place that's really sheltered and safe ... like a shell or something. And then there's the world which is not dangerous but you know just hard to hang on to or.
 Yeah and to come here.
 And your false front is?
 And underneath you're really upset and insecure and?
 It's hard to keep that up. [56:06]
 Kind of bitter sweet. 
 It's like if she knows then (she's) (ph) not okay with (you) (ph) anymore?
 On the one hand it seems like therapy ought to be kind of magical. All of the sudden you find the answers and it'll be okay. On the other hand you can see that it's getting harder ... to be able to (inaudible at 60:39)
 Yeah. Like when you know what they are it gets harder. Otherwise you can kind of shuffle around like. 
 It's quite a change. [61:32]
 Yeah. And it's time. Okay?
 I'm okay. I just realized I'm out tissues though, sorry.
 I can get some paper towels from the bathroom. Would that be better?
 I know.
 (inaudible)
 Oh.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Oh good.
 Mm-hmm.
 Okay.
 I can get them.
 I'll have the real thing tomorrow.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Part of it is you're also not so sure how you're going to get through the next 40 minutes.
 Well good.
 Yeah I guess it seems to me you're at — really at odds with yourself about how much to power through and how much to fall apart.
 Mm-hmm.
 We can sit quietly if you'd like.
 Mm? [00:10:01]
 I guess I can imagine that you on one side would like to let yourself fall apart and talk about it. But worried first of all, about the backlash for letting yourself do that. And also — which I think may come from feeling as though you, not consciously — I mean I don't think you consciously think this.
But [unconsciously] I suspect you do. Like done something harmful to me or wrong by being really upset. I know consciously that that's not how you think about it. But I think at another level you really worry about what being really upset does to the, or could do, to the people around you. That we really can't handle it or we really don't want to see it. [00:12:31]
 Or we're really going to be hurt. Or flustered or something.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 What was he furious — was it that you hadn't talked to him? Or that you called her?
 Mm-hmm.
 Meaning you really wouldn't have let people know then?
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 How —
 How would they hurt you? [00:16:37]
 Yeah. Absolutely. [00:18:14]
 Uh-huh.
 Worthless, hateful. What was the third one? Useless?
 Yeah.
 Yeah (inaudible at 00:23:53).
 It's taking everything you've got. [00:23:57]
 Well those things can both be true.
 Those things can both be true.
 Oh. (laughs)
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Thank you. (chuckles)
 Why do you ask them rhetorically? I guess I have —
 - a theory. Yeah I think — I don't think. I think you're saying it's rhetorical in this case to like take the heat off of me.
 And also in that way I guess to protect yourself from what you are pretty sure is going to be an answer that isn't good enough. Which is worse, I think, than not getting an answer in the first place?
 And —
 I think that may encapsulate a lot. (pause at [00:27:11] to 00:27:20) About some of how you're dealing with how you feel. Like some part of you is speaking up about wanting to know what the fuck is going on. And is really wanting to make clear how awful this is and how unbearable. And you, in a sense for good reason, are confident that part is not going to get any help or any answers. But you can't bear, I think, not to say or not to ask. [00:27:59]
 Although I think you kind of back off of that to sort of protect yourself and to protect the other person.
 But it also keeps you at a distance. I think I guess that's an important thing that it does. It contributes to the distance between you and whomever you're talking to. In that — I'm not saying you're not living (inaudible at 00:28:42).
I take your point about, if you were here and whatever, eight or nine years old, I might not hear for years that you were upset about anything. I know. But nonetheless (pause at [00:28:56] to 00:29:10) We'll let's see. What you are protecting, in this case, me as well as you from? I guess it's the hurt and disappointment of my not knowing. And your anger about all of that. [00:29:27]
 I know.
 I know.
 This is a short term thinking kind of thing if that makes sense.
 Mm-hmm.
 If we hold off on the realities for a minute —
 I guess it's making me responsible for something that at that moment it kind of feels like I ought to be responsible for. Or that you want me to be responsible for. There's the thing.
 Sure. And okay. So — (pause at [00:31:11] to 00:31:25). And that's pretty sympathetic at least from a realistic grown up point of view. You don't want anybody else to be responsible for this.
 It's more complicated than that.
 I see. (client crying) Yeah I think you'd really rather not think about the ways in which I or James or your parents are responsible for this.
 I think that's in part because there is a point there where you stop.
 Mm-hmm.
 No it's really not.
 What does that mean? Like I'm not sure what you're referring to about dumping all the other therapists. Like how useless they've all been? (laughs)
 I suspect you had many conversations with therapists in which my ilk have talked to you or gone after your avoiding being angry. Is that true? [00:39:57]
 Uh-huh. (pause at [00:40:25] to 00:41:10) Yeah I think because I'm not sure what else to say about that at the moment.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. (inaudible at 00:44:29) not hard to feel and sort of make it clear to him — I guess in some way that felt appropriate to —
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah I guess (inaudible at 00:44:59) that it would.
 Yeah. (inaudible) Yeah.
 (chuckles) Right.
 Something he might — yeah.
 I guess I asked that because I felt sort of on the verge of getting caught up in something like that with you. With my waving my arms about how it seemed to me you were kind of avoiding — stopping short of you're being angry at people whom you may have felt at whatever level (inaudible at 00:46:09) should be responsible for you're feeling sad. But then it seemed to me like we get into some kind of (inaudible at 00:46:20) that were — I don't know. [00:46:28] (inaudible)
 Yeah kind of —
 Yeah I'm thinking more like I can imagine you in a situation with a therapist or somebody else where they're talking about you avoiding being angry. And then you're feeling like you've done something wrong or should've done something different. And even though the discussion on the surface is about you sort of leaning on people or taking up more space with people, the way it's being conducted is kind of the opposite. That was my concern.
 But I don't know.
 (inaudible) about it.
 In any case we should stop for now.
 But we'll talk more tomorrow. Yeah. [00:47:35] [End of audio]
 So, um, anyway, how's the, what's doing with the anemia?  Are you -
 It's better?
 Are you, you're energy -
 Yeah, I know, but -
 So true.
 It's something -
 Actually, if, if you take care of yourself, you're more likely to have other people help take care of you -
 Uh, even.  Not only that nobody else is going to take care of you, but I think the more you take care of yourself, and try to remove yourself from, um, avoid the bait and the traps that are there, the more respect you'll get.
 And, and, uh, that's, um, that's quite a insight.  I think it is.  I mean, you know.  But you have a little more energy?
 Um, but you're trying to remember?  I mean, you take the medicine more times than you don't?
 All right.  Um -
 Oh, yeah -
 Because it's a diuretic, that's true.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Um, um -
 Yeah.
 It's starting with your kids?
 Um-hum.
 [NAME OTHER]?
 [NAME OTHER] or [NAME OTHER]?
 Oh, [NAME OTHER], [NAME OTHER], okay.
 Yeah.
 What kind?  I mean in Indi, Indian?
 Bad words?
 Um, um, yeah, that's probably a good idea.
 Um-hum.
 Huh.
 Well -
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I'd rather you not either.
 These little flies are back, [LAUGHING], I haven't them for a couple weeks.  Um, well, it sounds like when you can ignore them they up the ante and go after your kids.  Now, um, I mean so, I guess one thing to avoid would be discussing plans with your husband in front of them.  Um -
 Um-hum.
 That what?
 Yeah.
 Uh, your in-laws?  Hm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, that's -
 Well, you saw me first in, um -
 Five.
 February of '05, so almost 4 years.
 Um, but I don't know when you started, uh, when you started with [NAME OTHER].  I guess you saw me first.  Yeah.  Um, all right.  But now, who, are you, who are you seeing?
 Oh, you started seeing her.  And how many times have you seen her?
 All right.  And how is that working?
 Yeah, I mean, you think it's like some, uh, things that just are, are so, well, yeah, you've seen a lot.  They just seem to be so hurtful.  You've been seeing her a couple months, all right.  That she reacts to that or that she doesn't un, understand?
 She -
 Wait, wait, wait, whoa, whoa, zero.  Not a lot, you're not, not getting a lot, you're not getting any support at home.
 They do?
 I know.  But, uh, that I, uh, I guess that's not something we talk about in, usually here.
 But, so they've always occasionally done that or something new?
 Yeah.
 No kidding?  That you think helped?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, yeah, they've heard that, right?
 They don't, they didn't make that up, they heard that.
 Yeah.
 Um -
 Who does?
 Oh, [NAME OTHER], okay, okay.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.  I thought you -
 Um-hum, yeah.
 Yeah.
 You know, for whatever it's worth -
 Yeah.
 Yeah, but so, um -
 So what does she, what does she say?  You should just tell her to say thank you, and, and then -
 And walk away.  I mean, you know, it's, um, it's tough.  God.  I have not seen you like this -
 For a long time, months and months and months.  It's like you have a pulse, you're alive today.
 I mean, you've been, I think it's great, you going every week to see [NAME OTHER], just about?
 Yeah.
 In January?
 She's here today.
 She, I mean she is here today.  Maybe she's leaving.
 Oh, oh, oh, oh.
 Oh, okay, okay.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 All right.  Well, that, this is really, um -
 I thought it said the [DATE] here.
 Yeah, I think it's -
 Yeah, it's, the [DATE] is a Friday, but it said, I think -
 No, it's the [DATE], yeah.  It says the [DATE] here.
 All right.  I think that whatever you're doing with her, it's working, [LAUGHING], so, I mean, you know, you, and, again, you know, there's no answer that's great, because, you know, while they're still alive, and in your house, their job, as they see it, is to try to ruin your life.  I mean, basically, that's what it feels like to you I'm sure.  I don't think it feels, I don't think that's what they would say, but, but they really are not particularly fond of you.
 Because you're not that, you're not bossy.
 I don't know, you're not good enough for their son.
 Uh, yeah, but -
 Yeah, well -
 But they, they're not very fond of you, I'll say that much.  And they, I don't know, maybe you should drive them, like, to that, um, what is it, [DEIDENTIFIED], like 5 miles from the house, and drop them off and tell them to walk home on the trail and get some exercise.  Maybe not.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I know, I'm just kidding with that.  But I know that's kind of, that's tough.  But anyway, so are we doing the -
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Oh, yeah.  I mean, uh, we, what did we do, we stopped the Lexapro, right?
 Right.  I mean, you know, we did, the Zoloft didn't seem to -
 What else have you been on?  Yeah.  I mean, uh, Wellbutrin we've been on.  Um, and you're off the Concerta.
 No.
 Right.
 Now, so, why did we stop the Concerta?  Um, is off of meds and a test, oh, because they, you were doing the testing.
 Um, yeah, and we talked about this same thing last time.  Your internalizing all these negative comments.  Um, "I want something" -
 Yeah.
 Treatment, yeah.  So what, I mean, what do you, what do you think of being off the Concerta, are you, you're okay with that?
 And you stayed, you stayed on the, well, you worked up to what, 40 of Strattera?
 You didn't take that, or you -
 Yeah, the blue capsule.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, so you're on that.  Um, so, you're off the Lexapro, and Concerta.  Does that, I mean it's hard to tell with what's going on in therapy, and whatever, but, um, does that seem to be doing anything?  Because what it could be doing, it's sometimes, I mean it help with, you know, focus, attention, but it also can help with the anxiety.
 Well, uh, just -
 Do you think, but do you think this Strattera's helping a tiny bit with that?
 Because it does, it, you know, it helps with that, with anxiety associated with ADHD.  I'm, I don't know.  I mean, do you want to, you're not having any side effects?  Yeah?  Maybe?
 Because of you get nauseas?
 I, yeah, but how many, like -
 Yeah.
 After how many days of missing it?
 All right.  Um -
 All right.  I mean, you know, you can take it, even if you like don't take it in the morning, you can take it that night if you were, because it doesn't, unless it makes you agitated, usually it doesn't.
 No, you can't do that with Concerta -
 But with the Strattera, I know, it's a lot of, a number of people take it at night because it makes them sedated.  Most, you know, most people take it in the morning, but.  Um -
 You mean after you haven't taken it in for a while, or just when, everyday?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Well, that could be a good reason to take it at night if you forget to take it in the morning.
 Take it at night then and you won't feel, you know.
 All right.  Um.
 Yeah.  And it's good to take with food.  All right.  Um, you like peanut butter?
 Sometimes.  I mean, if you, if you, if you end up, like, missing it, uh, for a few days, take, take it with either, peanut butter has fats and protein that coats the stomach, it does a good job, or, you know, something like that.  It may help prevent you from getting cramps and whatever.
 Yeah.
 All right.  So let's, let's do this.  So this, so, basically, all we're taking from me is the Concerta, the Strattera.  Okay?
 Right.  Uh, and do you, do you have some left or not really?  You're almost out?
 All right.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 I don't know.
 Yeah, probably.  But I just, you know, I want things to work, to be easier, you know, see what we do.  I mean you've had this depression that hasn't responded, um, you know, it's complicated.  So this is what I want you to do.  We'll do, like, ano, I'll, gi, I'll give you some more samples.  Another week of, um, 40.
 All right.  Yeah, if you miss more than 2 days, like, if you miss 3 days.  All right, you're going to take 25 for a day, and if, then go back to the 40.
 All right.
 All right, um, all right, so here's this.  This is what, we'll do 40, uh, 1 a day for 7 days, and 50, which is 2 25's a day for 14 days, then 60, 1 a day.
 So I'm going to have her give you -
 A week of 40's, 2 weeks of 25, of 50's, and 3 weeks of 1, that's not right.  Two, 3, that's only 6 weeks.
 Oh, are you coming, too, with them, or just them?
 All right.  All right, check with [NAME OTHER].  Okay, this is 1 week, 1, 2, 3.  This is 6 weeks.  Um -
 No, it's on.  It's on.  All right.  Okay.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Uh huh. [00:00:57]
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 If you had the monitors. Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Right. Sure.
 Right. (inaudible at 00:02:49)
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Sure.
 So say the last part again. I was thinking about the thing you just said before that. (LAUGHTER)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Where this comes from.
 Hmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. Yeah, I mean clearly this has nothing to do with how much money you guys actually have. [00:05:03]
 I mean one piece of it has more to do with (PAUSE) sort of, wanting him to understand and buy into where you're coming from.
 And I suspect that matters more than the monitors. I mean, maybe that struggle you're engaged in a lot and not because of what he's like.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure. Purchasing a summer home...
 ...that would be different.
 Uh huh.
 Yeah. Right. In that direction.
 Yeah and you know that is interesting in the way you put it in terms of needing his permission as opposed to like, deciding together, you know?
 As though (PAUSE) he were the one with more authority...
 ...rather than more (inaudible at 00:07:15)
 ...more interested in collaborating.
 Yeah. What's up?
 Right. This is the thing...
 ...that's not quite in the main line of your work but you have some time and they have some need so...
 ...there you are. [00:08:01]
 Yeah.
 I think I've heard of (inaudible 00:08:25)
 (LAUGHTER)
 I see. Yeah.
 Right.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm. That's good for you.
 I think.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yep.
 Mm hmm.
 Right
 Even though what he's seeing is a bug you actually reported. [00:11:01]
 So he is reproducing your bug.
 He's just confused about what's what.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 (inaudible at 00:12:07) exchange server and as I last heard about it, we're not getting it. [00:12:09]
 Yeah.
 Hmm. That bad, huh?
 Right. That's what you were saying.
 Mm hmm. [00:13:25]
 Mm hmm.
 Right. [00:14:01]
 Right.
 Right.
 Well it is, it is pretty similar to what you were saying happened with... This isn't very different in what you were describing happened with Dave in that the issue with you're trying to make yourself clear...
 ... and being completely misunderstood.
 The other thing that pissed you off, I guess the different is that with Dave, you felt kind of down here rather than (inaudible at 00:15:11)
 Doesn't sound like how you felt and anyway maybe a little bit the opposite.
 ...with these two guys, Ted and the, I forgot the name of the other guy.
 Yeah.
 And I think another difference with the second one, as frustrating as it, is, is easier because you don't feel at fault.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm. (PAUSE) That's his problem.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 This is where it possibly being your fault starts to creep back in?
 Another feature of these situations and I think a lot of the ones you talk about is that somebody's usually really fucking up and somebody else is really mad about it.
 Usually the person you describe who's really fucking is you but not always.
 And (PAUSE) I think sometimes when it isn't you who is fucking up, like in the situation you're describing, I think you feel, I mean certainly frustrated, you said that.
 And also pretty critical, I mean you're clearly saying that as well and then kind of bad about it.
 Like, "Okay. Let's say he's an idiot. No, let's say he isn't that smart."
 You know, or he's not being conscientious. Or whatever it is.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. It's, it's sort of like (PAUSE) somehow it's like a felony not a misdemeanor to be an idiot. (LAUGHTER) like it's like a big crime.
 You know, and somebody sort of deserves a lot of criticism if they're being an idiot.
 And then I think you feel bad for that.
 And I guess it doesn't feel to me as you describe it like, sure it's frustrating to deal with somebody who just can't fix the problems that you have worked hard to explain very cleary and like thoroughly. But it seems like there's maybe a bit more an edge to it than just, "Oh this isn't getting fixed."
 Like there's another aspect of it about being really annoyed that he's such an idiot.
 Like yeah sort of like it is a punishable offense to be an idiot.
 I mean I think he definitely (inaudible at 00:21:01) too. But I'm sort of wondering about that. [00:21:01]
 (inaudible at 00:21:15)
(PAUSE)
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 And it's not somebody's fault if they're not smart.
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm.
 Hmm.
(PAUSE) [00:23:01]
 Wow.
 That's horrible.
 I have this picture of him in my mind of like he's just clinging so tenaciously to his intelligence.
 Uh huh.
 Sure. [00:24:15]
 I think mental retardation is defined as IQ below 70 so yeah... (PAUSE) I think. (PAUSE) So... (PAUSE) I, for what it's worth, like I don't actually tend to believe in like, sort of, habits and psychological inertia.
 I tend to believe more in, like dynamics. So let me explain how I think that applies to what I'm talking about .
 I, I hear what you're saying makes sense and in a way, I'm sure it's true that, you know, because this is something you grew up seeing all the time...
 ...it's something that you took on as well...
 ...even as you've tried not to...
 And you don't like it...
 ...about yourself. (PAUSE) I imagine that it may work more like this. Like, that I would say sort of a habit model and there are a lot of things that look that way and in a way it's true. I'm not bringing this up to try and quibble about theories. But, I suspect it's more like, I bet you get really anxious in situations where there are problems or things go wrong because somebody is going to be an idiot or an asshole and that's, you know, that's pretty scary. I mean, certainly growing up but even now too. I mean, if there's a problem and you're working on it with somebody. If it's not going right...
 ...you know, it's sort of dangerous if you find out it's you...
 ...like you can really take it out on yourself...
 ...really harshly.
 And so I think that makes it scary.
 And I imagine (PAUSE) one aspect of this anyway...
 ...is that you manage that worry by kind of dumping that anger and criticism on somebody else when it feels like they are the ones who are responsible for the problem. [00:28:09]
 Which, I mean, clearly there's still a habit in there so maybe I'm not entirely clear on my metatheory (ph) is or something.
 But, but it's based more on how these situations (PAUSE) I think involve a lot of anxiety.
 (inaudible at 00:28:41)
 Yeah.
 Hmm.
CLIENT Like where is that coming from? I don't know. [00:29:01]
 I mean the stakes around those things aren't high.
 Although I hear what you're saying about like, it's a piece of software not working right?
 It's not like getting mugged or, you know, car crash, or...
 ...you know, being broke or something like that.
(PAUSE) [00:30:53]
 Mm hmm.
 Hmm. Like you're in the position of just sort of reporting the news.
 But it's still not hard to get tangled up in this other stuff.
 Yeah?
 And I guess you would mostly be doing or at least significantly because you wouldn't want to feel bad when there was something that you couldn't fix even if it was totally not your responsibility?
 Mm hmm. Right. It's time away from other things.
 Mm hmm. Right.
 Right.
 Right. [00:34:01]
 Yeah.
 Hmm.
 Yeah, I imagine if, again it's like something with the passivity there... [00:34:29]
 ...makes you really anxious.
 Yeah.
 Hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah. Right so you're not even the person who's like really good at just one thing.
 Yeah. [00:36:15]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's another aspect of it that I imagine. Let me back up. Yeah. Yeah. In some sense you're kind of always talking to your dad. (inaudible at 00:37:45)
 Or like with me yesterday about the (inaudible).
 Not fair at all.
 (inaudible at 00:38:53)
(PAUSE) [00:39:02]
[00:40:01]
 Mm hmm.
(PAUSE)
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 (inaudible) another situation that (inaudible)
 And you wanted it anyway.
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm. Are there things that would have been fun about the other one? [00:42:57]
 (inaudible at 00:43:07)
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah so that's another thing to get over.
 Right. [00:44:09]
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah. (PAUSE) Well we can finish up for now.
 We'll talk more this week.[00:45:01]
 Client 1325-017. Client 1325-017. Interview number 5. Interview number 5. Interview number 5. (inaudible) counselor. (inaudible) 
 This interview is recorded on the long side. It makes a difference in the way it sounds. It's recorded on the long side. (inaudible) recorded on the sunny (ph) 0:00:52.7
 Yes. 
 First (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 It's not surprising. 0:01:48.7
 Yeah. (inaudible) potential disaster. 
 (inaudible) you know you do enjoy it (inaudible) maybe kind of compared to other people, other girls I mean, you have to be "broken in".
 Like, you know, maybe you know just do appear inhibited like that compared to other girls. That's kind of really troubling you, I think. You're feeling maybe like you're (inaudible) 
 Why would you want...what....what...on what basis would you think that other people doubt that you enjoy it? 
 It's something shameful to have an orgasm?
 You feel like there's something wrong with you....
 Sexually because you haven't had an orgasm.
 Am I capable of it?
 (inaudible) full enjoy it.
 (inaudible) 
 Like you know you're different than other girls. 
 Yeah. That's kind of the other side of it. It's like you wonder if there is something wrong with you (inaudible) you know you're not frigid. Am I....can I have an orgasm or why can't I? (inaudible) What's he going to think about me? Would he say something to other people? (inaudible) people (inaudible) that Helen is frigid.
 Helen is sexually na�ve. It just doesn't (inaudible) it's all about. It really worries you. 
 Yeah, well, it's one thing...you know, you're hung up about it and wondering if you're hung up about it but [then is it going to get also kind of] (ph) hung up about it becoming known that you're hung up. 
 Kind of like, on the one hand you feel like well, you can say to yourself he's not the kind of guy who would say something to other people; you really worry that he will.
 Just kind of like that other guy said something to someone else (inaudible) 
 Is when you say you're getting afraid....you mean like you're getting afraid like you'll be afraid to go to bed with someone because of what he'll think about you?
 It's probably the worse thing you can do. I mean is to worry about it.
 And do you think that women have orgasms all the time (inaudible)?
 Kind of like you don't know what they expect; kind of feel (inaudible) just afraid if you (inaudible) their expectations. 
 You really feel like you won't; it's really....almost certain. 
 Did this...was this came from when you slept with him last week (overlapping voices) 
 Several times, what? Slept with him?
 And what has he said to you? I mean what...what I'm saying is where does this come from?
 He was talking specifically about in bed?
 When he said that to you (inaudible) really, really self conscious or just (inaudible) 
 You mean like you're not normal (inaudible) 
 You're sexually pumped up. 0:10:06.0
 (inaudible) 
 What do you mean you know you are?
 How are you sexually fucked up? 
 What are the fears about?
 What are you feeling? Can you say more about the inhibitions?
 What?
 (inaudible)
 But when you say (inaudible) inhibitions, it's like you feel kind of like you just have to be passive...is it because you don't feel like this....is it because like you feel like that's....I'm having a hard time trying to try to put my hand (ph) on it....it's....you say you're largely passive, I'm wondering are you largely passive because that you don't know what....you don't feel like doing anything else? Or are you afraid to do something else? Do you see the distinction? 
 I mean you're afraid to be more active? Just on..... 0:12:16.5
 It doesn't feel like it's there in you.
 Yes. It cuts off when you try to....something you could light up inside of you if you were a (inaudible). 
 Which guy?
 Last spring.
 You were being compared against some other girls. 
 You're really afraid....?
 Yeah. It's like, you know, you're not intensely involved with him but it still really is important what he thinks about you; what he thinks about you and what he must be thinking about you and enjoys other women. God, does he think I'm really lousy in comparison with other women?
 Whatever it comes from it sure feels (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) feel like...I mean (inaudible) 
 To mean....to not be totally responsive (inaudible) have an orgasm.
 It's kind of a (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) seems like you're depressed. (inaudible) 
 It's like...it's a weird thing because it's a weird thing....I guess it's a hard thing for you it's because it would be one thing if you could make that decision...that sex isn't my thing. Okay. but it's like you (inaudible) but you just feel like you don't have it in the right way; that's it s half ass version or something like that. 
 You just don't know what you are sexually. You ever...maybe that's what I'm kind of sensing here that you're just...you can't figure it out. It's like you know I think I am sexually inadequate but I think I'm sexual too. All I can sense is I'm just not...I'm just not the kind of like a real woman like I'd really like to be. (long pause 0:18:45.4 to 0:18:59.5)
 What was the first part before the being used? (inaudible) 
 Fear about....fear about sex?
 I see. It's kind of like you feel like you must be judging me....you're judging me sexually and I'm just really nervous probably (inaudible) dry and be...and you know, and it's like I know I'm looking through...you know, I know what's really important for me is a relationship. I don't know if I can have it with him but, you know, maybe see what happens but...but it's like the cards are stacked against me because I'm just sexually inadequate. 
 Yeah. It's like it doesn't seem as big and intense but it seems kind of pointing (ph) and potentially hurting and it could shake you up. 
 Yeah, you know, it's like you have that fear inside you that you are inadequate; that you can't...incapable of being in a relationship. If he were to say those things to you, it could really just throw you. 
 It would be kind of like putting a period at the end of those fears. 
 (inaudible)
 You're really frightened (inaudible) 
 You mean he'll be back and you.....
 Afraid of seeing him just in the same street (inaudible) bring it all back. 
 (overlapping voices) 
 (inaudible) could...seeing him could really [erupt you inside] (ph) 
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) want you to go to Idaho? Or just (inaudible)
 It's kind of like...teaching at the lab school is kind of like well, in a way you could have your feet in two places. 
 But would seeing him completely shake you so that...you know, off your feet.
 Like what happened during the summer.
 (inaudible) you (inaudible) I mean it's like there's so many questions about yourself; so many kind of [bad thoughts] (ph) and it's kind of...it's so easy for them being treated (inaudible) kind of feel like you could get lost in it. If this guy really judged you...like you couldn't have relationship because you were sexually active; couldn't have a relationship because you're just inadequate, you know, generally. You're not capable of seeing this guy. 
 Yeah, it's kind of....yeah but that's what you're (inaudible) like you feel like you have to kind of go back and (inaudible) do what other people kind of supposedly got over. 
 Kind of right now, it's like.....it's a little like you can see all these possibilities....how you can really...the [way you're] (ph) shaking and how you can really just have the ground pulled out under you.
 Like you feel very precarious and fragile, in a way. 
 You're (inaudible) 
 (overlapping voices) it's like, you know, you feel like you're just starting to get on your feet and you're feet are (inaudible) and it can really be easy for you to fall. 
 And pushed down to the ground. 0:29:48.1
 What other people think about you...it's like you don't feel like, you know, you have that strong belief inside yourself and it's like you really do....it is terribly important to you what other people think about you. 
 Like it's important what this guy thinks about you is; it's important what he thinks sexually about you because you doubt all those things inside yourself. 
 That's really scary. 
 That's kind of a way of somehow getting some kind of affirmation inside (inaudible) can really disrupt (inaudible) you are (inaudible) (long pause 0:31:36.0 to 0:31:47.6)
 Yeah, the truth is...it's a nice thing but it can (inaudible) 
 I bet you're afraid of it too. 
 You have like...I mean I could....I kind of sense in a way now that you're...you are kind of feeling your potential for shakiness and your shakiness right now. It's like you feel like potentially you could really be shaken.
 (overlapping voices) now it kind of makes you feel very shaky right now. 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 Kind of scared you might not make it but....
 You show some kind of (overlapping voices) you might make it. 
 I guess it was easy for you to think about it....you felt it more last time we talked (inaudible) there.
 Renewal (overlapping voices) 
 That's the little boy with 1 eye open, huh? /
 And 1 closed.  What does it bring to mind when you —? /
 Well, our time's up.
 That was an easy insurance question.
 Yeah, parody diagnosis or non parody diagnosis and then you have a (inaudible at 00:00:12) diagnosis.
 Oh okay. What company?
 And it's a PPO?
 Let's see... I...
 Okay, that's kind of an important distinction. My experience thus far (pause)...
 Right. My experience so far with HMO's versus PPO's is that their cure for mental health is actually in practice quite different because PPO's don't require authorization and HMO's do or at least that's how it's been. And what that means is - well there's two issues. [00:01:18]
One is that with an HMO I have to keep writing down first sessions every 12 visits which is fine. I don't mind doing that. But they really at best they'll offer us two sessions a week and that with a fair amount of hand waving and fussing. Whereas with a PPO you don't need authorization so you can - I mean I see people for analysis four times a week on a PPO, and I just submit, and they just pay, and that's it.
 I know you can't see from that point.
 Yeah, well because why would you? So I think the way to put it is sure we'll pay as many as you need or we'll pay as many as are medically necessary relating to what we believe...
 Yeah. And I'm pretty confident...
 The other issue is I think I'm probably getting off the HMO like I won't be an HMO provider. And most of those don't have out of network benefits. So I guess that's another... I know should know that within the next couple of weeks, but I'm pretty sure I'll be getting off of it.
 Sure.
 Also I got your e-mail about (inaudible at 00:03:02). That's fine. [00:03:04]
 Don't apologize to me.
 What I imagine matters to you maybe a lot of the times and especially in things like that is how close you feel to him. How much you feel like he's there with you or not. And when he's vivisecting your feelings...
 I see.
 I see. I think I may have missed your point. So your point was...
 You don't seem to make any less sense to me.
 I mean... Okay here's a physician statement. I don't think any of us can trust all that well our impressions of what is and isn't going to make a lot of sense to our therapist.
 I think that's probably my experience. You know often... [00:10:13]
 I guess I mean it in both ways that sometimes things that make so much sense, or seem to make so much sense like I won't get that, or especially the things that seem incoherent, or sort of all over the place, or off the wall will probably make more sense.
 I guess I could explain it more eloquently and say that feeling those ways, discombobulated, disconnected, incoherent, off the wall, are usually signs of being anxious and at bit kind of defended against whatever's coming up which inevitably makes it harder to think clearly about it. And that's not the same for the other person in the room. [00:11:30]
 Whereas things that seem clear and more coherent are like (pause) often kind of a little further away from or more (inaudible at 00:11:52) versions of what's going on in front so it could be harder.
 Exactly. That's right. [00:12:17]
 It seems like he could feel very clearly that he wasn't being helpful to you and that he wasn't (pause) - you weren't feeling all that connected to him. [00:13:14]
 Well (pause) I could be wrong, but I guess I don't see why you couldn't tell him what helps which is I think - I mean since the only thing that helps, and I'm not saying that it makes things all better by any means, I do think it probably (pause) would (pause) help keep what's going on between you and he at the moment from making things worse. But I would imagine what makes the difference is he just sits and listens, and asks (pause)... It doesn't really help for you. I don't think he asks like he just sits and listens, and let's you talk, and let's you sit in silence. [00:15:46]
 Yeah. [00:16:21]
 Right.
 Yeah. Then he'd have to deal with that.
 Yeah like I said I think what makes a difference is how close it feels like the other person is to what's going on with you. And I think (pause) the vivisection and recommendations do the opposite. [00:17:23]
 Well...
 I could imagine it (pause) might help with the boomerang effect like... I don't even know if this happens but I sort of speculate that at times when you get off the phone with him after being upset you can feel really bad for what you put him through. I could imagine actually that you get pissed off at him. That might be less likely to happen, but I...
 Did you have a really self critical (inaudible at 00:19:34) reaction after getting off the phone?
 Sure.
 You mean in general?
 You mean like you're thinking of it more often now?
 (inaudible at 00:25:53) deciding not to stop yourself?
 Okay, well what is it?
 It's like the difference between murder one and manslaughter or something.
 Is that often what you imagine? [00:27:21]
 Sure.
 I see.
 What led you to cut yourself yesterday? [00:29:31]
 What'd you do?
 Yeah, I used to watch that.
 I do.
 Oh no.
 Oh really?
 I did not see that.
 It's okay?
 Is that the one where she jumps off the platform?
 It's suicide but she's saving the world isn't she?
 Is that the one with the (inaudible at 00:34:46)...
 I haven't seen it in a while. I probably saw most of that season.
 You've been talking about it not being as much of an (inaudible at 00:35:44).
 What was getting from the season five?
 Wait who?
 Oh.
 Yeah. I think I remember her being pretty flat.
 You don't really think you'd ever win this? [00:40:08]
 Well we can stop for now. (inaudible at 00:42:57). [00:43:07]
 Yeah?
 The one working with the geriatric  - 
 Right. Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And that's the same agency you're going back to now with this new job?
 Okay, NDRN.
 Okay.
 On...?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. What was that - tell me more about what you mean by that, putting closure on it?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 This was a number of weeks ago you interviewed there.
 Mmm hmm.
 The lack of closure with NDRN?
 Yeah.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right. But I - when you say closure, I mean that's a word people use a lot. And everyone sort of assumes they understand what everyone else means by it. But I'm interested in hearing, like what that means for you. This idea of closure with NDRN.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay. So it's kind of like a confirmation or an affirmation of the idea that it is a place that you should separate from.
 But I know you really liked working with the population of people there.
 It sounds in fact like you feel mixed in some ways because you know yes, the place takes advantage of you and they're not a nice organization to work for but that there was something that you got out of being there.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 But what's it like making, or saying goodbye to the people who you have become attached to there?
 Oh, okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Bad?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Yeah. I'm struck by a couple of things and one is the fact that these sound like really strong and tender attachments that you've got  - 
 - to the clients who you work with. And I didn't know this. This is the first I'm hearing about it.
 I'm just also thinking about what you're saying about how it feels to separate and to say goodbye and to you know achieve closure with your job and do all of that, thinking about the fact that that's next week for you and then like, the week after that it will be you and I.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. How are goodbyes for you generally? Generally speaking?
 Yeah.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Yeah. So maybe you're not as out of touch with those feelings as you think. Or as you're suggesting. It sound like a lot of it is there. And what you said, I mean the way you described it like, someone's breaking up with you, you feel angry and afterwards you feel the sadness and then missing the person, I think that is natural. I think that is the way it is for a lot of people.
 Do you ever wish though that you could let yourself get all out of shape?
 Mmm hmm.
 Why do you think it might have been healthier?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Well you were talking about your dad sort of coming in and out of your life and maybe getting accustomed to that pattern of things. But when you said that I was thinking about, but then there was one time when he went away an didn't come back. You know, when you were a teenager. And if that was something that at the end you felt regret about.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. You know one of the things that occurs to me now, you were saying that you know when you broke up with Willa or with Elle that there was the period - there was the feeling you had at the moment in time and then when you were alone there were the other feelings that came afterwards like the sadness and missing the person, things of that sort. You were talking about leaving NDRN and leaving clients and that you know it's probably going to be (27:00) - there's going to be some feelings that you'll have about that for a couple of weeks afterwards. Of feeling like missing them and those sorts of things. It occurs to me that in regard to this, what we're doing here, you know you are - you've been expecting that we're going to end, that I've sort of prepared for that. But that there could also be in regards to those feelings that you have afterwards, you know, things that come to you later on after we're done. I don't know what those would be necessarily but it's something that's actually is not uncommon. And you were just describing it as part of your experience of saying goodbye to people or to places or things.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 All this is. It's a good chunk of time.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. Well what about that - that you're not going to be talking with me anymore and that you were saying that, you know, that that's who you are and that you probably won't be talking to anybody at that point? What's that prospect feel like?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 One thing I was thinking of when you said that you know you can talk with Beth, you talk with Sharon, was - it would be hard to talk with Sharon since you don't want her to have the information.
 Mmm hmm.
 But, yeah, I hear what you're saying - I mean my impression as we've been working together is that you've really worked in therapy. You know you've really spent a lot of time working to understand things and to understand yourself better and to get as much benefit as you can out of it. And it seems like you know what you're describing is like, not having anymore the opportunity in a way to do that kind of - that kind of work, you know because you were talking about if you talk with somebody who you know who's a friend they might tell you what they think you want to hear and be agreeable with you. And that has it's place. But it seems like you really appreciate a challenge.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. But it takes a certain sort of strength to be open that way, to looking and considering what somebody else has to say. You know, to getting somebody else's view of you.
 You were about to say something else though. You like that you...
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 You know when you put it that way too though that it's been stimulating, it sounds sort of, you know like it's been this rewarding thing. Which I think it probably has been, but it's also been hard. I mean I think that you know you're talking about having gotten a lot out of this process but the process itself I think at times is very hard to go through, painful at times.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Yeah. Just because describing it as stimulating sounds like - I mean stimulating sounds like a good thing. And I think there are probably also times that like while, you know you can look back and say, stimulating, there probably other ways you might have described it like in the moment as you were going along.
 Like when you were, you know, were upset and cried? Did that feel, I mean...
 That's what I mean.
 Yeah.
 Right. That's what I mean.
 Yeah. Because you were - you're reflecting on the positive things that you got out of it which is a great thing to do. But it's also - but you've I guess left out in some ways the fact that, you know there were times when I started to say something and you're thinking like, you know, let's not go there (45:08). Or I don't want to go there. Or times when it was painful. Or times when you know you left here and just felt really depressed. You know, there were negative times too.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Okay.
 Mmm hmm.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Why would you guess?
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Well, you know to tell you where I'm coming from, which we don't really have time for because we're almost out of time. To tell you where I'm coming from, it's not from the perspective of feeling like, you know there's a breakdown in the making or anything like that. It's more from the perspective that I think it's worth talking about. It's not something that people get to do very often really, to talk about the process of saying goodbye. You know like how you were saying that you had plans to go to work tomorrow and start telling the clients that you'll be leaving so that you can begin a process of, you know, of taking your leave, them taking a leave from you. It's not something that we always get to do in life. A lot of times goodbyes are really abrupt. You know, it's...
 And I think, you know there's something to be gained from it. I think it also is something - goodbyes are hard for people a lot of times (50:59). And you know they will deal with goodbyes the way they deal with a lot of the rest of life. You know whatever it is that they habitually do to deal with life. And you know what you're saying to me about, you expected that it's 30 session and you know, you've gotten a lot out of it and it makes sense. And you know, that it's been stimulating and you'll lose your stimulation. All of that makes sense to me. It also occurs to me that you mean - you've tied it up into a tiny package that's you know, manageable. With no like, sort of uncomfortable emotions like spilling out around the edges. You know you're describing it in a very, you know, calm and cool and collected way. I'm not saying it should be otherwise, I'm just noticing that it's like - it's what you do. You're doing it.
 Here, with this. 
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm.
 Mmm hmm. I mean it's been - you've had meaningful relationships with the clients at work. And I had understood that it's the thing to do to not treat those relationships lightly. You know but to give yourself and the clients a chance to process that you're leaving. And I feel like this has been a meaningful and significant relationship and that you know, we should have benefit of the same thing.
 So now we're out of time.
 Do you need anymore of these?
 Okay. Bye bye. 
 Session 3.
 Oh, it sure is.
 That's right.
 Okay.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, I see, that would explain why that might very well happen.
 Um-hmm.
 But you want to try it out?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Yes.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, a barrier that keeps you from being honest.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 I see, I see. And you mean about the dream, you mean it really is true that you're afraid of what's going to happen if you really are honest?
 The therapy is going to do something to you?
 Being honest.
 But you don't want to be something worse either?
 What's the vegetable kind of thing (inaudible at 0:04:47.1)?
 I see, I see. [0:04:59.2]
 Uh-huh.
 I see, I see.
 It's like the seriousness of what therapy might do to you?
 But can you focus on what it is that might happen to you from therapy?
 Okay.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 You mean in the sense that it's very unfamiliar or...
 You know...
 Keeps you thinking.
 You mean, if therapy doesn't work?
 Oh, oh, oh, I see, I see.
 I do remember. [0:08:01.7]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Uh-huh. You just found yourself wandering?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 You haven't?
 Um-hmm.
 Focusing your whole life on.
 Um-hmm.
 But you don't (inaudible at 0:10:35.8) like a burning interest in physics (inaudible at 0:10:38.1)?
 Um-hmm.
 Isn't a fear of not being able to (inaudible at 0:10:49.7)?
 Um-hmm.
 It's a fear of if you don't you're going to mess up on the test?
 Um-hmm.
 (Inaudible at 0:11:35.2).
 And that's something that you...
 You're kidding, right?
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 That you're wasting me time?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, don't feel right about having me spend my time with you when I could be spending it with somebody who's really worse off?
 I'm not quite sure.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, I see, for you it means everything?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Are you saying you are like that or...
 You're not like - I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Well, just let me say, I don't feel like I'm wasting my time as far as how I feel.
 Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
 Uh-huh.
 But you still feel that way?
 Yeah, yeah.
 I mean, I wouldn't do it if I felt that way.
 Yeah, but there's - yeah, I see, there's still something in you that says, it's like, do I have the right to take the place or take the time of other people that need it more?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. [0:15:58.9]
 Um-hmm. Tell me about...
 Um-hmm.
 Oh, I see, it's made some kind of a mark (inaudible at 0:16:22.8).
 Right, I see, the piece would be there to use.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 I see, it's like if you can get it out, even though it's confusing, you'll have it all laid out and then (inaudible at 0:17:12.5).
 Um-hmm. [0:17:17.8]
 I think you did say it.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 But you're not sure how she's handling it?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Yes.
 You really felt that, yeah, yeah.
 Um-hmm. You were Miss Everything's little brother?
 Um-hmm.
 It was all inside?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 And somehow the same kind of thing happened.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 And you wonder if there - got to be something comfortable about acting that way.
 Then it was hard to give up even though you could have.
 Um-hmm.
 It's a different kind of situation? [0:21:55.3]
 Um-hmm. It wouldn't have worked?
 Try that (inaudible at 0:22:01.6).
 Um-hmm.
 It's, like, you're not sure whether that didn't happen here because of you or because of the situation (ph).
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. It's sad that you can't be free of (inaudible at 0:23:57.4)?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 And maybe you'll try and see what's that like?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. And that's part of the (inaudible at 0:25:15.2) design?
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. But after you reach the goal, then you enjoy the kind of praise that goes with it.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hmm.
 Oh, my, look at...
 One is a physicist, yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah, yeah. But what of what you're saying is, like, it's very - I don't know what the word is, but it's very hard or something to continually be in a situation where you're low on the totem pole. It's very nice to go back once a while where they would look up at you, you know?
 Admire, yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. Rather than - yeah.
 Um-hmm, because they don't really know.
 They don't have any way of judging you?
 Um-hmm. But you want it to look special.
 But yet, you know it isn't?
 Um-hmm. [0:29:35.8]
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah, I know what you mean.
 Um-hmm, that if you change, you don't want to go that direction?
 (Inaudible at 0:30:57.1).
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Unnatural to have to stop, it's seems less spontaneous.
 Now how should I act?
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Now is this what you're saying? Like, what you do now is to stop and see how you feel, is that what you're saying?
 Be un-spontaneous?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 The problem is you're guiding your behavior? [0:32:20.5]
 Well...
 Right, well, it sounds like there's one difference, though. The first time, you're doing what they want you to do, kind of falling into a pattern?
 This way, you're falling into your own pattern, which you still may be guiding it that may be another difficulty. But it sounds like it's...
 Closer to what you want to be, even though it might not be - there might be - get another answer too.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, to be more by yourself.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Uh-huh, it might be bad not to be trying (inaudible at 0:34:09.9).
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. [0:34:57.8]
 You just can't...
 You can't find anything?
 Um-hmm.
 That's not major enough either?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Afraid that...
 Trying to stay out of that?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, to enjoy it at this level, but holding back as far as getting closer.
 Um-hmm. [0:36:59.0]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, you can't understand it?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah.
 So it's very mixed. In some ways she doesn't know you at all?
 I see, that's the only - yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 So what is it you're wondering about?
 Be so - oh, why should you dislike yourself so much in this situation where you're being so honest? Is that what you're saying? [0:39:48.3]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 You don't really understand?
 Um-hmm.
 Make it clear that you (inaudible at 0:41:09.5).
 Yeah, but you don't (inaudible at 0:41:15.2)
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 And you're attracted to them?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. You wonder if that's a way that (inaudible at 0:42:30.1). How would that make you feel to do that?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Hard to take that one honest step with her?
 Um-hmm, like it is fun to go over there for supper?
 Look at all you would be giving up.
 You mean to you, it doesn't make much sense to try to be honest if you're not going to...
 Do (inaudible at 0:44:24.7).
 Um-hmm, that's the next area.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Why she should love you?
 When you treat her the way you do? [0:45:52.7]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 The inconsistency bothered you?
 Um-hmm.
 Just getting it all sorted (inaudible at 0:47:05.3).
 I play it by ear.
 Are you (inaudible at 0:48:01.8) asking something like, am I going to somehow play some kind of organizing role?
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hmm.
 But what were you going to say?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 I see, I see, you're worried if it will ever fit together?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. [0:49:59.7]
 I guess there's a couple of things been on my mind. One of them is, I guess what I'd like you to do is - well, I guess I'm beginning to get interested in what you say is really not so much the fact of, you know, oh dear, we have these extra pieces that don't fit. But, like, what it all means to you to get it organized or to have it disorganized because it sounds like that is something that has a whole lot of feeling in it.
 Something like that, it's close to that or what it means to you, yeah, to get...
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, right.
 Um-hmm, I see, I see. So that's the way you feel is that you would like (inaudible at 0:52:06.4) much better if you were structured. And really, the difficulty is that you're not?
 I see.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm, I see, I see. I know that's very important, yeah, yeah.
 Um-hmm, tell me more what you mean by that? When one has done what? [0:53:00.2]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 To at least have the honest pieces?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah, even if you don't get it all put together, there's something comforting about having (inaudible at 0:54:38.3)?
 Still be uncomfortable not to have it put together.
 Um-hmm.
 No, I don't.
 And with you it's really a very bothersome - bothersome.
 You don't know so often why you do things.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Well, (inaudible at 0:55:53.5).
 Right.
 Okay.
 Okay, goodbye.
 You can leave it open.
 [PATIENT NAME], how are you doing today?
 What's the matter?
 Did anything happen to get you upset?
 What's the circumstances?
 It's always been hard for you to accept taking treatment, hasn't it?  Not know what you want to do, although sometimes they help and sometimes they don't.  There have been some that just haven't helped you as much as we'd like.
 You feel like getting back on that would be reasonable because the other couple didn't help too much.  Did, did we ever add two together?  Did we ever take, like, like, one antidepressant and then a second one?
 Didn't do that?  Because sometimes when you have what's called treatment resistant depression that re, resists what we typically would do.  We will add two together, and then there's other options to do that too.  There's, sometimes we add a thyroid supplement to it even if you don't have a thyroid problem, sometimes taking an extra thyroid medicine helps boost things.  Sometimes we'll add lithium.  And you might say, "Well, why would you give me lithium?  I don't have manic depression."  Lithium, I, I use lithium three quarters of the time more often for depression than I do for manic depression, uh, because it's fast, it, it easily is added to Zoloft and, and could boost the effect.  And, of course, the newest treatment that we have, treatment resistant depression, is to take which ever antidepressant we decide is the best one and then add Abilify to it.  The, there's pluses and minuses to that because Abilify's a pretty potent medicine, um, I generally like to make sure that some of the other things haven't, haven't helped first, like, adding, you know, a second antidepressant or thyroid medicine or lithium, before I do that.  But, but you do, I mean, you have treatment resistant depression and, and, and I wish it didn't come back, but, and I know you don't want it to, but if you don't take treatment, yours is recurrent.  I mean, you, you have the kind that it's over and over and, and I know you don't want that, but we have tried to do without and it's just, it's just the wrong thing to do.  Did your anxiety come back this time or not?
 Some.  Did the Xanax help when you used it?
 Okay.  You've never had a substance abuse issue?  Never been —
 Alcoholic and, now, this person that broke up, did they break up with you or did you break up with them?
 Were they, were they married?
 So, they —
 Uh—huh.
 Did, did you get the feeling that that wor, might work out to be more than just the dating —
 Relationship.  You thought that's what was going to happen?  Had the person been married before?
 Did he, did he have children?
 How did you get along with the children?
 It, it was a custody issue then, in visitation?
 So he didn't really did he explain why he didn't want to continue the relationship?
 How long had that been since he had the breakup of that relationship?
 Pretty recent.
 So, he's still in that, figuring out what to do.
 Did you get the feeling he wants to reconcile with his ex—wife or —
 But he still —
 Led you to believe —
 Led you to believe that it would be he was in that place in his life where it could work out, yeah.  It's hard to go through courtship.  I don't have to tell you that, uh, there's a lot of heart break to that and especially if you're emotionally vulnerable in the first place.  Do you feel like any form of counseling would help you?
 [INAUDIBLE] [NAME OTHER].  Um, what about pastoral, I mean, would, would talking to a pastor help you or, or not?
 Do you get down on yourself?
 Have you had thoughts about hurting yourself?
 That, that's a frightening thought, but that had never happened.
 And even though you're a condition only partially responds, it always responds some way.  But the treatment resistance part is, is what we want to try this time, maybe, to be extra careful about picking something that you can continue and, maybe, persuade you that you don't need to be getting off of your medicine.  Because, you're, I mean, you get in this state, hon, and you don't do any good whenever you're this depressed.
 They're pretty understanding over there?
 Yeah.  Well they, you don't, they don't need to know your business.  You don't need to tell them what's going on with that.  But you're able to keep up, prior to this you're able to do your work and have satisfactory performance?
 And that sort of stuff?  Well, let, let's go over the choices.  I want you to be able to understand that and decide with me, because you can't really make a wrong choice, um, I'm going to send you home with the material to read about the Abilify because even if we don't use that one, I'd like you to have it and look into that.  Um, Zoloft, as you know, is a serotonin agent.  It works on the chemical, serotonin.
 And that's the ones that you've tried before, the Effexor, and the Paxil, you know.  The Effexor has both noradrenaline and serotonin it works on.  Zoloft works purely on serotonin.  But sometimes we can add a medicine, like, here towards the bottom, bupropion.  It has —
 Effect on the, not only the, uh, serotonin, but the bupropion works on dopamine and noradrenaline.  Uh, there is a new antidepressant called Pristiq that is a byproduct of Effexor, uh, the chemical that make up [INAUDIBLE] Effexor called venlafaxine.  They've refined it and use a metabolic byproduct called desvenlafaxine, desmethylvenlafaxine and it, it's a pretty well tolerated medicine.  It's, kind of pricey as those things go.  It doesn't have a generic, so, um, some ways the sertraline, since you know, at least, you tolerate that and we could add a bupropion to it.  It's a generic.  It doesn't cost very much.  It also is not cost very much to add thyroid medicine because they're pretty reasonable cost and it doesn't cost very much to add, lithium if we decide to use that.  Lithium is salt.  It's handled by your body salt, so you drink plenty of fluids and it's flushed out of your body.  I like that it, it's pretty much win fast, lose fast, with that one, um, and it combines very safely with Zoloft and, and Xanax too, for that manner.  Um, the one downside is you do have to monitor it.
 You have to do blood tests periodically to check your thyroid and check your kidneys and make sure they're okay.  Uh, but  it, it, it, I'm not going to use it like I would for a manic depressive, so it wouldn't have to be managed at the highest level, so most people can't even feel it.  It just gives you the benefit or it doesn't.  Um, the quickest thing probably would be, get back on the Zoloft and let me add something else to it, as opposed to starting a whole new medicine because we at least knew we got some good out of Zoloft.  You had to stop it because it seemed to quit working for you.
 But maybe to manage that we could add a second thing and we just decide together what that is today.
 I definitely think the lithium choice is a good one for you because you are young and healthy and, uh, and it's easy to tell in a very short time what the dose of lithium needs to be, um, lithium is just a blood test so all you have to do is, your regular doctor could do the test.  And, uh, we'd just have Zoloft and lithium together and then give you a prescription for the Xanax.
 What about your family?  Have they said —
 Did she approve of this man?
 She thought he was, he was a decent person and uh, so it wasn't like that was a bad situation?
 But there's a part of you that believes that might still work out?
 Not to be, maybe —
 I think you do have to be aware that, I hate to say it, but the men that know wh, what makes them unsuitable, hide what makes them unsuitable.  Whether it's that they, they treat you bad or they're a philanderer or they won't work or they're an alcoholic or whatever it is and, and that's not unusual.  But they'll, they'll make you believe, "Oh yes, I'm the mer, I'm the perfect gentleman."  And then quick as things get to where you really have to go one way or the other and they show you their true self.  What about your panic attacks?  Have they resumed or are you holding up okay?
 That came back —
 But you never see things or hear things?  Hear voices, see things?
 Never believe someone's trying to hurt or kill you?
 Never have any racing thoughts where you're speeded up, you feel like you're the greatest person on earth?
 Don't sleep for days, anything like that?
 Well, I know in the beginning, I mean, you were, let's say you were less than enthusiastic about being a patient, and, and didn't really want to buy into any of this stuff.  And I think as time has gone along, it's not just been your mother that persuaded you.  I think it was the fact that this won't get better and stay better without you doing something.  It has made it easier this time to not wait until it's absolutely the worst, because it's certainly capable of being way worse than this.  And as bad as you're feeling right now, we don't need to wait for that to happen again.  So I would propose that you let me give you this medicine.  Let me re—evaluate things in not too long.  I mean, you could go for two to four weeks if you wanted to, but I wish you would do the test in about a week or so.  Um, and you have the lithium three times a day and then the next day before you do the, the blood test, don't have the lith, uh, don't have the lithium, because the only thing I'm going to check is the lithium.
 It doesn't matter if you eat or drink anything.  You can take your other medicine, but just don't take the lithium that morning, and then have the tests made sometime before noon and that gets —
 Sure.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Anybody, anybody can do it.  [DEIDENTIFIED] could do it that [DEIDENTIFIED].  Just call them and ask them.  You know, ask them about what their, their policy is on that, but there's no, there's no medical reason why that can't be.  I mean —
 Uh, you know, ask them over there at [DEIDENTIFIED] too.  I don't know, have you, have you had any lab recently?
 You didn't figure out the policies, okay.
 Right.
 It, it really doesn't make a difference because all of them acknowledge this test.  It's a very simple test.
 Salt is easy to measure.  Now, it may be a send out.  I don't think they'll have it the same day, but I'll send you a report about what it shows.  My inclination is to say, we ought to probably give it a couple of, you know, week or 10 days.  You, you'll know by then.  Just drink plenty of fluids and be careful to take it with, uh food on your stomach.  If you get upset stomach, carry a couple of Pepto—Bismol tablets with you.  If you're at home take a couple of tablespoons of Pepto—Bismol.  It should set, settle your stomach.  Because the main problem you get with this is a little bit of loose bowels or upset stomach in the beginning.  Your hand may tremble a little, but that goes away in most people, because we're going to keep it on the low side.  We don't need to use a higher dose as we do for a manic depression.  But I, I really do believe that we can get Zoloft to help you again, because it helped you before.  It's just what I remember of it was, it, kind of, pooped out and you still had some left over symptoms to the treatment resistance so we need to add something to it, so I'll let you go home and read about the Abilify.  Uh, we're not going to use the bupropion, but that, that's also called Wellbutrin, so —
 If you just wanted to look it up, that's what to look up.  But, uh, I think this is a good choice of things and we should be able to see something within two to four weeks, you should start to feel it.
 Well, what questions do you have about this treatment?
 Okay.  Have, have you weighed yourself recently?
 How much, how much, because last time I remember you weighed about 130?
 Okay.  Well, we're, we're going to be watchful of that because, as you know, that's a sign of depression.
 That's not a good kind of weight loss.  That's not the kind we want you to have.  I want you to have the healthy kind, so, uh let's do that, let's go ahead with, uh, your height is 5'4"?
 Five three?
 Five foot even, okay.
 Let's, let's do this.  Let's go ahead leave the Zoloft the same, uh, Xanax, you know how to use that.  I gave you enough to, to adjust that.  And then call me sooner if it's not going right, we will get together and decide.
 Okay?  Get this off —
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
 Uh huh.
 Gotcha. Was this the complicated one?
 I see.
 Mmhm. [00:00:58]
 Yup.
 Yup. [00:02:51]
 Yup.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 Right.
 Yep.
 Right.
 Right.
 Kind of water under the bridge.
 Yeah.
 It's only because you're a friend of a friend of her.
 Mmhm.
 Right, not stunning.
 (laughter) I guess I'm trying to...
 Uh huh.
 Not so much. Um...
 Oh really?
 Yeah.
 Uh...
Pause at [00:10:24] to [00:10:49]
 It's up to you, you don't have to..
 That's right, you did mention it. AS long as we have a way to refer to her, that's all I really was asking for. [00:11:33]
 Fine, that woman. That woman. Um, why would you hesitate to tell me?
 Uh huh.
 Did you have a crush on her then or were you just not even thinking about it?
 Right. [00:12:24]
 Yeah.
 What do you remember about it?
 Mmhm.
 I may have seen that once or twice.
 Right. [00:13:23]
 After being separated.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Uh huh.
 Well it sounds like you, it's uh a lot of work and stress.
 So you actually wondered for a minute there, what was going on with your interest in that woman.
 Ok.
 Well you're like why am I doing this?
 Sort of uh, why have I gotten so focused on her, I don't really know her.
 It's like you know, not that likely something would work out, at least that's what you're saying and so why get kind of fixated or whatever, thinking about her a lot. Um.
 Right. Sure.
 So, you don't wonder things like that, that often.
 Um, I mean as soon as I started to say something I think you changed the subject like two or three times.
 I know. But you did actually pose the question too.
 (laughter) Where am I again? Who are you? What are we doing? Yeah.
Pause at [00:19:50] to [00:20:10]
 The dog's calm.
 Right.
 I uh, no I know where we were, it's up to you, do you want to go back to it?
 I think you're generally more interested in kind of getting things off your chest and letting me know how much, how intense and how painful the things you're struggling with are than in reflecting about what's going on. And that's ok. But you seem (pause) strenuously weighted of reflecting on what's going on. I think mostly because you come here really to unburden yourself and it feels like reflecting or interpreting or introspecting that way will be more burdensome. Or will add to what you have to deal with rather than offloading some of what you've got, and which you know really understandably weighs so heavily on you. [00:23:56]
 How do you mean?
 No maybe you're um, more accurate about it. You know I think a lot of stuff you're doing is awful frustrating, often upsetting, sometimes scary certainly. What you're feeling is more like, all the things you're doing with like financially and with Jess and, and everything in your life are — the feeling is mostly fear.
Pause at [00:25:01] to [00:25:19]
 Um...
 Right, it's not the not having the work it's what's involved in getting it done.
 It's not either or...[00:26:16]
 Mmhm.
 Yeah.
 I see and part of what you are saying is not so much like you feel burdened by these things as scared of how the hell you're gonna deal with them without causing more problems, like spending more money you don't have or pissing off Jess. Things like that, feeling guilty about your parents.
 Mmhm.
Pause at [00:28:50] to [00:29:25]
 Why are you taking the team there?
 Yes you do. Sure you do.
 I just, the best you're saying can happen with any of these things is that uh, aren't as scared of them. It's not like anything is going on that's actually gratifying or makes you feel secure. It's you know, it sounds like good outcomes mean you know there was no catastrophe or you weren't uh, criticized and made to feel shitty about something.
 Mmhm.
 Mmhm.
Pause at [00:36:45] to [00:37:56]
 Mmhm.
 The one you like?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you pretty much always sound overwhelmed. Which I guess I'm, I really know what you're saying, that there's just so much stuff.
 Sure, it's much harder to be alone with things like that.
 Mmhm.
 Uh. Yeah you focus pretty hard on one side of things here.
 Yeah.
 You don't know who she is, you don't know what's going on with her, you don't know what her problems are, you don't know who she's looking for, you don't know what's gonna make her happy.
 We're gonna stop in a minute, but I mean this has got to happen right? In a setting like that with a bunch of grownups? Playing a sport, people ask each other out sometimes?
 Broadcast and humiliated for the rest of their? I mean uh, yeah you're pretty quick to self deprecate and feel kind of embarrassed and ashamed about all that. I know there are things that you know, you know anyway. Yeah.
 Twentieth interview. 
 To realize how little things have changed because of the... [0:00:36.8]
 Not that fact that they were still there at this time. Like they do at (inaudible at 0:00:44.8).
 (inaudible at 0:00:47.0)
 You mean you can't feel someone couldn't-could be able to decide that? 
 Like how could someone be that sure? [0:01:44.4]
 I mean, are you asking me, or are you just wondering out loud?
 True. Well, I mean in my experience. Several of the clients that have left me have left because they've gone to California. Too many in a row (ph). They'd been planning to go to California in time and they - and you know, that was the end of therapy. Kind of like-like it's happened for you. 
 Another thing that-when it's been positive and different, sometimes I have gradual and a lot of talking about wondering, "Is this real?", keeping on kind of checking. Kind of deciding, when maybe something else happened with them. And after a while kind of saying, "Well, they aren't absolutely sure. But they'll try it." If it is not completely irrevocable. And someone's experience, it's clear to them. One day, she came in and that's it. So I guess I'm mainly-the factual thing is that there seems to be-you know, I haven't had a huge wide - - I'm not saying my huge clinical experience or anything. But it seems like there's different-a lot of differences between how people do it. [0:04:49.5]
 And I don't really know, at all, what goes on in some of those cases. And the other thing, well, that I was kind of wondering is whether there's some-whether you're wondering or not being able to imagine that you'd ever be that sure. To be able to say, "No, I don't need therapy anymore." 
 What would you say? You'd say, "I don't know." You just-you can't tell whether there have been changes in you that are, the kind that you wanted? The kind that - benefited you enough? 
 I mean, you can't tell whether things have really changed. 
 Well you're saying it's not a matter of whether you've had enough change or such thing. It's more a matter of something like-I guess I mean how I phrase it, it's like-something, it's like, "So things aren't absolutely perfect when you're not high all the time." And given that, it's not completely wonderful. What ways-or how much do you expect to maybe change from where you are? And how would that happen?
 Yeah. (inaudible at 0:09:08.9)
 Yeah.
 How you see it.
 You really weren't going to have one. 
 So-
 But that's not a way of dealing with conflict with your father. It's the same, as it used to be. But do you mean, in the end-you know, what I haven't know-you are acting differently about it? 
 Do you mind that thing?
 That way? Do you see that way as a way you shouldn't be acting or?
 So you don't want to have to think about it?
 You mean it's the same way it's just you have to do what (ph) you hate.
 But it's kind of removable. It's just an obligation.
 When you kind of thought you were good, and here you find, you're doing stuff that isn't so hot?
 It's more personal. [0:16:34.8]
 Even if the outcome isn't that much different?
 You are kind of changing what you want the outcome to be? And concerning your-
(crosstalk)
 "It doesn't reflect on me." 
 Well you're telling me an instance where, where it might be the opposite. But that doesn't necessarily mean that in general, (inaudible at 0:21:55.5), it doesn't mean that in general you might be incorrect. But I guess you mean that that one instance with Kaplan where there seems to be such a disjunction between what he says and how he looks, made you wonder about your world. (ph) Made you wonder [some things about that?] (ph)
 No, I was-I wasn't exactly saying that. I don't know - you're kind of interesting, issue, as an issue. I mean are people responsible for their faces?
 But I meant more-explicate what your issue, if it was. Which I guess is something like, because you were wrong on this one. 
(crosstalk)
 That there may be an arbitrary relationship instead of the-
 (inaudible at 0:22:53.4)
 Kind of like realizing, I guess like realizing, you always thought you were right, on this kind of thing. 
(crosstalk)
 You just did it a lot.
 But those initial impressions are really compelling to you. 
 You're very strong about, like that you know what people are like when you look at them. 
 I think I'm misunderstanding-
 What do you mean? (laughs)
 I see.
 Yeah, I see. Is that like a setback?
 Is it like- if on Monday you realized that something that you do. But what ordinarily happens is, you react to a person. Just, you know, however. However you do. And you just-
 So it just seems like it's just going to open up all these things that you always have to keep checking-
 Checking yourself on. 
 That's a pretty-a pretty big thing to change, especially if it's something you do so automatically. 
 You mean because it's such an inaccurate-potentially in accurate way... 
 Right, well I mean that it has a lot of pitfalls. I didn't mean to be putting on you to cast doubt, with that. [0:28:58.2]
 Like you (ph) were saying, it's not a very good way of forming an impression?
 So now it's like all of a sudden you've realized, you're ding a thing that you thought you'd never do. Is that the distressing aspect of it? 
 Yeah, so it's like there's something that you're doing, you really don't endorse and you really don't think you should be doing. But realizing that, this puts this whole big job on you. And that's, becomes that- the thing that you're feeling kind of heavy about it. 
 And you're wondering if you're going to have to reassess, all your - [0:34:04.6]
(crosstalk)
 But you can't just, sort of, pull it out-
 It's much more of a kind of implicit reaction thing.
 Well what's happening with it?
 Not solved, or.. 
 I don't really mean solving-solving the issue. But not resolved, or you don't feel like you're really finished with it in a way that clearly says, "I've learned something." Or something has changed. Something like that. 
 So did you talk about it, as you wanted to? Did the thing happen that you wanted to?
 I guess I mean, when you end-when you kind of end, and you get to this point and you don't know what to do with it. Being satisfied with how we've talked about it, and kind of been hearing-kind of thinking we're finished with that. There isn't anything more to say. 
 So that sounds more-
 What is the reference toward?
 Do you think there is? Or is this-I mean, it seems to me there are certainly things that you're -  or that a person wants to talk about, and kind of explain to someone else, and doesn't know really have particular questions about it. 
 But I don't know if this is one of those things. You know, on each thing that is apparent, could be the case or else not be the case. You could have - there could be something bothering you about it. 
 So you-
 I understand what you're wondering to say. You're worrying about whether you should bring it up at all? You just wanted-
 You can't tell-
 You weren't. 
 You're so ambitious with that. Because one is I don't think it's a great norm-sometimes the norm gets out in therapy that you can only talk about the bad things. Or the things that are tearing you apart. I think that's very restrictive, to people. 
 Yeah, and I think, that there's really something to be said for that. So, so there's got to be room for just talking, you know talking about (inaudible at 0:40:57.3). And there's got to be room for talking about feelings, if you do. At the same time, I guess the other side of that. This issue about how to keep on making it possible, making it easier for people to talk about the things that are problems and do bother them. 
And also to figure out-to try to find ways to figure out, if there are any problems. It's like saying, trying to figure out if there aspects of something you're talking about that are a problem for you. Without making it seem like, you can only talk about it, if you find something that really bothers you. I guess I want to get across to you a point. (ph) [0:41:50.5]
 With - of the whole that I said, or (inaudible at 0:41:57.4). 
 Well, at the same time-then there's-not at the same time. Maybe it's like on the other hand. I think it's-it is important and difficult to find ways to, so that people can talk about the things that bother them. Also so that they can find out whether there are things that bother them in something that they just brought. And kind of see that there are things that they want to figure out or open up, problems with something. [0:42:52.4]
One of the problems [we've found] (ph) is how that should happen because it seems like-it's the-you probably just keep saying there's something [to bring up] (ph) or something that you bring up. You say, and you probably don't [inaudible at 0:43:04.7]. Where is that a problem for you. Does that bother you. That there's a danger that can set up that norm, that there are only-that you can only talk about bad things but if I don't ask or say-or try to open that up. There's a possibility that we won't find out, if there is something wrong there. So I guess I sometimes ask and sometimes don't. It may not be the best way of solving that. 
 And you wonder what they talk about, you mean? (laughs)
 How are they talking.
 But you mean-
 Is that in the past, stuff that is really concerning you again.
 Do you feel that we didn't adequately kind of explore around that, particular thing?
 But in a way, it seems you in some kind of loose kind of way, it seems to you like-there should have been more to that discussion?
 What does it mean that has occurred to you? 
 Kind of asking is something wrong with you for - for being like that?
(crosstalk)
 Different. 
 Have you learned the point? (ph) [0:47:13.6]
 Mm-hm. 
 You mean, you mean kind of-
 (laughs) Yeah. 
 You're going to the doctor and you're having to use all these formal words for me. (laughs)
 You mean you wonder if that-if like how you-how you kind of reacted and made those judgments-you made those judgments is another place where I guess it sounds much more cognitive and much more automatic. And that it's kind of like-implicit when you draw a conclusion. And ....
 You mean kind of like conflict (ph) -  you're wondering there are you haven't met that might be nice, because you'd avoid them? [0:50:19.0]
 But you never tried to get to know any in a real way. 
 What if other people have been implicitly drawing conclusions about you? (inaudible at 0:51:01.9)
 It's like saying, "There's this thing that I do." 
 So it's more of a context for you?
 Is there a way-can you think of ways that say I could help and you're doing that. Hoped it would be something like, just a - there's this thing that I do. 
 You mean I'd kind of say, "What is this thing that you're talking about kind of signify, to you?" [0:52:49.9]
 Well then-
 You know, actually, it's not-it's not just trying to make everything a problem. Another thing about it that occurred to me is everything connects, and be consistent. And I think that's the main, the-the norm and the thing that you just said that I object to, in general. I don't know about this specific thing but it just reminded me of is-when everything has to be-
(crosstalk)
 Can you think of other -  of things that just might have made it easier for you to keep on talking about it and get around those things. Or things that might have helped you-
(crosstalk)
 You mean even whether or not that's the case. But just because you kind of might, stay in your way. Something like that?
 Yeah. It's like - it is like trying to push. I mean, I think the experience is that someone is trying to drop-push you over? And you don't want to move?
 It's more like inertia or something. 
 Yeah, I wasn't talking about, so much about trying to get you always to set a context or something like that. Or rather I think, wondering if there are ways, if there were any ways that would just make that easier for you, to do, when you thought you maybe wanted to.
 To elaborate the context and say something that, to get into the different things around the images, after you've described them?
 Well when you get to the end, and you've kind of said your thing, like what happened with this thing. 
 You don't know when you can, factor that in, when you know.
 How-what are the conditions. [0:59:41.9]
 That might-that kind of explicit thing might not be the way of really getting to that. 
 That's hard because it's so-it would be-if, that would be very hard for me to do that, particular thing. Because it's so different from my mindset, what my mindset is in here. It would imply a-
 Yeah. I really can't-I kind of glad because I don't think-
(crosstalk)
 Yeah, right. I know. 
 Yeah, I wasn't exactly refusing. I was just more, just musing on what would that be like for me. So, not exactly inconceivable to me. I mean, but realizing that it was really different. 
 I guess it is time to stop. It's a kind of funny way to end, with that. 
 You mean it isn't-it isn't exactly real to you that you're not coming back?
 You were waiting for me to say something about that. 
 You didn't want to say about what you wanted. [1:02:33.3]
 On the grounds of what?
 But if I said something, than that would mean what?
 (laughs) I'm not.
 How come? [1:03:49.5]
 I can think of a lot of different responses, [wouldn't you] (ph)? 
 So what-are you kind of saying, well if I was willing to say, the hell with that. Or never mind those aspects. Then that would be okay. Because I would probably, know that that was okay. And I would be taking the responsibility for that. 
 But for you to just kind of suggest that would be like-
 You can't make it like an infraction (ph) or something. 
 It would be a selfish thing to do?
 Did you also worry what it would be like to kind of-what if I said, "No, I can't do that." Or something like that?
 (laughs) It would be pretty embarrassing. And it would be embarrassing not just from being rejected, but because what you think of me-
(crosstalk)
 What you'd think I'd think.
 Well, a couple of things. I guess now I'm going to be more practical (ph), about it. Not - did you kind of finish that?
 Well one thing, if you asked I could flag (ph). That's one thing I wouldn't do, particularly. (laughs) That you were selfish. I would feel like, that's nice that he wants to keep on coming. The rationale for this 20 session thing was this fall, even. I guess, I'm really sorry that I didn't explain this before. I don't know if it came up and I let it go by, or - I think it did, early on. The rationale was a couple of things. There's-you're in research and that isn't (inaudible at 1:06:53.4). 
When there's research on the outcome of therapy, one of the things that they found out here when they're doing research like that, that if they don't control the number of times that people come, that's one treatment area. They-it's very difficult to interpret the results. They have to hold certain things constant. And they found also, that in general, you can predict is that, or groups-if you compare a group that can come as long as it wants, or a group that has time-limited therapy, the outcome is the same. Like they told you. That's overall. That's not for every group that-not necessarily true for each individual.
 For each individual, you know-
 Right.
 Right, not people who get thrown out. 
(laughter)
 I think that would help, that we'll have to think on (ph). And the other rationale on this particular research was, since that - even so, even though there's the same outcome overall, not a good outcome. People should be able to decide whether they're in a time limited thing like that, because it has some certain disadvantages, which you know all about. Certain disadvantages for the client. And even though it may have the same outcome, there are kind of - some issues that shake out later on (ph) with time limited therapy. (inaudible at 1:08:31.9) And some are good and some are bad. But they are different. 
And that's why they-and often people, the choice that you need-we want to offer people the choice of being in research or not, also because you have to take the test. I mean at the end. And the notion was, I guess, if you're going to do that-if you think that the person is going to do that, you should give them something in return. And that-the other things we have to offer in return at the center are, a shorter waiting time and a more experienced therapist. So that, that was the kind of trade-off that was offered. 
And that-I'm not sure if that speaks to things, it's just kind of explaining that the rationale for therapy was set up- [1:09:27.4]
 What that means in terms of what?
 Yeah, what we'll do next? Yeah, well about your situation now. If you're-see I can't tell if you're even asking that. If you want to keep going with me. And I guess the thing, if you want, I'll have to check into this. But if you're asking that, the thing to do is-after you're done with the test, come back and we can talk about different alternatives. And think about that. And if you want to think-I guess I'll explain and if you wanted to say, pick a time say the week after next, and you want to come in and talk about what we could do, that's fine with me. 
 Well we could just figure it out now. If you want. Then we could talk about it, what you want to do. And figure out something, not saying, we're going right on with this. Just assessing and talk about it.
 Kind of assessing and seeing, and there's also the possibility of other therapists here or something. Yeah, you could just do that. I guess, one of the reasons that I'm saying that's, talking about it now. It's just, it's another research thing. I don't know, in general. I guess, out in working with him, he has the feeling that people kind of have their plans figured out before, what they're going to do next when they take the test. And you shouldn't do that. Besides it will probably be clearer in a week. But it's too rushed now. 
 Not this week. Next week is May third, and the week after that is May tenth. So, tell me when I-
 I don't know anything about the tests. 
 But I guess you took two things last time, right?
 Took two different kinds. Yeah, I guess it's the same. And I'm - I just gave a note to Allen today that this is your last time. So he'll be getting in touch with you, and arranging that. But I suppose they'd do that next week. If you can. 
 It's really going to be imposing on you?
 You can't just go 'boom, boom'. Well, I'll tell you. I'm really pretty much free. There are a couple times that I can't do it. Like, you have 1 class. I was going to say that, 9:00-10:30, except Wednesday and Friday. And the other times I can't do it, are 4:00 on Monday and 3:00 on Tuesday. That's about it. So we'll just make this work.
 (laughs) 
 Okay. How about... 3:30 on Monday? 
 Do you want a little thing? 
 Okay, and do you have my phone number so if you can't make it then, if you haven't finished the test, you can call?
 Okay, let's do it like that. 
 Do you want to stop and try to figure it out or?
 Right. It's been real nice working with you.
 What?
 Too final?
 Right, bye. 
(audio gap)
 And wondering if he asks who is going to fall, if he keeps on this way. 
 No. I didn't know what that means. 
 It's just not enough.
 Like a [ ] (inaudible at 00:09:01) 
 I think you tend to feel kind of empty.
 Which I think is mostly because you feel sad and angry. [00:10:47]
 Hit me.
 Hmm. (long pause) [00:20:17]
 Tell me about how you've been feeling sad.
 Yeah.
 What's it like? [00:21:40]
 That's all really a lot to bear. 
 Absolutely. (pause) [00:30:06] Especially when you're in it so alone and it doesn't feel much like anyone cares.
 Yeah, I think that would have made a huge difference if she had.
 Well, you know what to do. You know you're feeling [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:29) (long pause) [00:36:55] What's on your mind?
 Like getting shot down reflects everything else that's wrong?
 Well, I think the main thing for you is not just being alone, it's not having anybody who is sort of caring and paying attention in that I think, while it can be good in some ways hanging around the kids because they're kids, it doesn't provide a lot of what you need. I'm not saying it's not good being with the kids, I'm just saying . . . 
 Yeah. I guess my point is if it was just being by yourself, being with the kids would help a lot. In some ways I think it's good to see the kids, but it doesn't really help with a lot of what's so painful. I think this stuff with business sucks, but I think it's probably secondary in a few ways to how lonely you feel. I sort of have the fantasy in my head, which may or may not be true, that if you were dating somebody and it was going well, work would look different in six months somehow. I don't know, first of all, but I just have that feeling. Also that part of this feeling you have about expecting to be alone or deserving to be alone is to do with how shitty you feel about yourself because of work. [00:44:13] My main point, really, is that I think feeling alone and feeling like there aren't people around who are paying attention and care is just devastating. I'm not [ 
 Sure. I sort of think it's the other way around. I don't know what you can do to change things to be less alone, but I do think it's how overwhelming, sad mostly, frustrating also, it is. I think that spills over into a lot of other things. I think that's part of what makes it hard and makes you feel depressed. It makes it hard to do other things. It makes it hard to be patient. It makes it hard to motivate, and I think there's a difference between kind of recognizing it and having some perspective on it versus just being overwhelmed by it all the time. [00:47:15] (pause) We should close up for now. We'll talk more tomorrow.
 Before I forget, there is one more Friday that I will not be around which is next Friday.
 (inaudible at 00:00:08)
 But I'm otherwise around Thursdays and Fridays. A few days I'm out in August. The middle of August. But I'll double check. I don't think either one is a Thursday or Friday. But I will (inaudible at 00:00:22) about that.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Okay. Um, all right. I will make note of it.
 What's that like?
 Mm. (pause at [00:04:07] to 00:04:35) That you don't have to sort of work on containing yourself? (pause at [00:04:37] to 00:04:51)
 It seems like you're sort of thoughts or associations are like a little more halting on this. [00:06:13]
I mean as we're talking I guess I wonder — (pause at [00:06:17] to 00:06:34). I wonder if that's also because it makes you a bit anxious in some ways to talk about it? What you're describing is it being a relief.
 Um, but it seems also as though less is coming to you to say.
 It's not that I'm doubting the feeling of relief. It makes sense to me. [00:07:15]
 Even if it didn't I wouldn't doubt it. But (laughing) the (inaudible at 00:07:27) doesn't convey the feeling of relief.
 Oh.
 Oh okay. Sure whatever (inaudible at 00:07:41).
 Yeah.
 (laughs) Mm-hmm.
 Don't have it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. (pause at [00:12:06] to 00:13:29) (inaudible) I'm not yet sure what to say to about it. I mean it's certainly a lot to do with anger. Rage. [00:13:36]
 But I'm not yet [sure] what to make of it. (pause at [00:13:55] to 00:14:22)
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 (inaudible) big denomination?
 Yeah.
 Something more productive?
 I wonder how much of the sort of — I guess I want to be clear. I'm not at all taking issue with all that's out there that you're referring to to be angry about. [00:20:06]
 But I'm wondering if one way it can function for you at times, as I strongly suspect it did for your father as well, is to sort of allow you to avoid a kind of vulnerability that you also feel quite strongly.
 Like — I mean it seems quite natural and expectable to be furious at right wing Christian or so called Christian groups for the both political and personal agendas that they pursue. [00:21:23]
 I would think it's also scary that there is so much of that out there.
 And that it can make you sort of feel some risk. Or a kind of vulnerability.
 And same at your church I think.
 Again like I would — I'm not saying your (inaudible at 00:21:57) is misplaced. That's not what I mean. Only that maybe the part of it that I think you're describing as being at times a bit compulsive or like —.
 Or it's anger looking for somewhere to go.
 Might have something to do with feeling like you're kind of carrying a weapon if you're pissed off. [00:22:20]
 And I'd always thought about this the other way around but now I'm actually wondering if some of the procrastinating isn't in part similar. Like you're doing something that will make you angry.
 Rather than putting you in a kind of more vulnerable position as associated with trying to get things done.
 And sort of taking risks that I think that at times entails. (inaudible at 00:23:24)
 Right. Or if you fail at least you knew why. You can be furious at yourself for it. [00:23:30]
 But that's different. Now we both — like clearly there is some short term thinking involved there but you know —.
 That's how we often think. Or at least—
 - how we often talk to our therapists about how we think. So in other words what's involved when there is sort of trouble or (inaudible at 00:23:53) deal with.
 Mm-hmm.
 What books?
 Yeah. (inaudible at 00:25:00) Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah (inaudible) Turkish.
 Oh. I got confused. Yeah.
 Uh-huh. Like an eleven year old would write?
 Yeah.
 Oh God.
 Right.
 Oh yeah?
 Uh-huh.
 I think I remember that. And it was like overseas.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right. (pause at [00:31:09] to 00:31:31)
 What is it? [00:31:35]
 (laughs) I dialed the wrong number.
 Ensues.
 I see. (pause at [00:33:07] to 00:33:48) It sounds like it is fun to think about though.
 I guess I feel like you were in part quite directly responding to my thought about like anger and vulnerability. [00:35:33]
 In that — I mean one aspect of how I heard what you were saying was like, "Yeah look what happens when I put myself out there. I want to."
 "Like it appeals to me. I think it's cool. I have that in me. But here's how it got beaten, frightened out of me." Or not out of you but —
 Quashed.
 Yeah.
 Sure. Yeah.
 There is some — it kind of feels that way to me too. The way you talk about your Dad sometimes. That in addition to being crazy and abusive like that he was sort of desperately trying to teach you a lesson to help you stay safe.
 In a very dangerous and very terrible world. [00:37:23]
 Unquestionably. And I bet there were better things that you would have (inaudible at 00:37:56) been taught even if you had been living in a refugee camp.
 I'm certainly not trying to stand up for what he did.
 Just pissed off about it.
 You mean you want that about the things you're angry about or you want that from him? And that's why you want to tell him? Even if he wouldn't get it? [00:39:23]
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Ah. Oh okay. I see now what your response (inaudible at 00:39:50).
 I see. Yeah.
 Yes.
 Yeah. I certainly do. But I guess you're giving me half of your own experience of your point of view. [00:40:51]
 Which is you know the part that still needs to be convinced.
 Or that might doubt. Or that you want affirmation from.
 That side of it makes me think — (pause at [00:42:16] to 00:42:26). Like I said I don't want to get too into the intellectual neatness of it because it's interesting but not as important as the emotional side of it. But it's almost as though you were kind of — it was a like a move towards something and it's opposite at the same time there? Where on one hand the content of your statement was very critical of your father. [00:42:52]
 And at the same time you were looking for reassurance from me. But I wonder if that's not that far a displacement from him?
 Where you're both like angry and critical, like furious, and (inaudible at 00:43:30) of course about a lot of the ways that he treated you. But at the same time maybe also wanting to show him you've learned his lessons well or correctly at some level. Or wanting affirmation and confirmation from him. (pause at [00:43:47] to 00:44:03) About having (inaudible at 00:44:06) be productive and how sort of bad our neighbors in the world can be. [00:44:09]
 I mean that's not entirely if you think about but I think there are some ways it's true. And there are some ways it feels that way.
 We should stop for now.
 But we'll talk more tomorrow. [00:44:27] [End of audio]
 This is interview number ten, with client number 0729-107. 0729-107. 1970. 
 Uh-huh.
 It is nice. 
 Very pleasant. How about yours?
 Waiting for something to happen.
 She's only hearing half.
 How does that leave you feel?
 What's be oppressive? Because you've said that a couple of times and I'm trying to figure out what you mean.0:06:50
 It sounds like what you mean is "This is a suggestion. This is something I've tried, and it has helped." But apparently it is being heard, this is the way you should do it.
 Makes you feel pushed in a corner.
 Anything you have to offer doesn't amount to much.
 That sounds like, maybe, a defense from her. You feel you have to do something. 
 You'll probably get hit over the head. (chuckling.) I hear you saying though, "I really would like to get to her in some way so she can understand what I'm really trying to do is just be there, not say this is the right way.
 Yes, it is important to you. Could you tell her that?
 You think she feels that she...
 It isn't very real to have to be asked for it.
 And that's really scary too. That's in a way, a big part of our relationships.0:13:51
 Right. And I can within myself say, "I do this." I go through this little self-hypnosis if you will, this little sleep pep-talk. You're really ok. You try hard. She doesn't really understand that you try hard, and you're ok. We were talking last night, and when we talked it brought back a whole lot of the past that I'm beginning to look at from another perspective. From talking to people that didn't have the same type of past. And I was telling her last night the fact that living in Louisiana there is the afternoon shower, the afternoon rain shower. But when I was ten years old, I started to deliver papers. And it doesn't sound like much.0:16:00 I can remember weeks on end when it would rain in the afternoon while I was delivering papers. And there was many a time halfway through this paper route I would think about just quitting. After the papers fell down and got all wet, all this. But I never could do it. It was always that I had to get it done. I never stopped. These things kind of disciplined me, almost unknowingly. They discipline me to not stop, discipline me to be self sufficient. Whey you're out there, it is a terribly lonely thing, riding around some strange neighborhood, maybe it is not strange, but it's not something that you would call your home ground. And you're riding around some strange neighborhood, delivering papers, fighting off the dogs, taking the guff off the other kids, this sort of thing. You have to have something that keeps you going. and I guess some of the time, between that and the bad home life, I talked a lot to myself. I had to keep myself up. 
 Right. And I can do that here. I can do that with her. But that's very lonely. It's a way of survival. That's about it, surviving. There's a lot of unnecessary unhappiness think. And there's just nobody you can turn to in a situation like that. It really comes down home when she says, I'm just not telling you things I used to tell you. I'm saving them all for therapy. And the tough part of the whole thing, the therapist is away on vacation. I wouldn't ordinarily even bring it up accept that her therapist's away on vacation. 
 I know that sounds kind of calculated. But that's the feeling I get. I have felt that a lot, often times when we are with the people we are with, especially here in Central Park, there is a within a range, a certain uniformity of approach to things. A particular example, if we were arguing, if we were having a particular discussion in a group- here's the classic one, she really came down. She lectured about an hour to me. We were at a dinner party, all sitting around this table, about 6 people. So, this couple had a young girl and a young boy, they were seven, four, something like that. This guy is an pediatrician, and he was expounding on the fact that the differences between boys and girls. Why the differences were between boys and girls. Well, I'll admit there's differences, but a lot of them I think we impose. We give little boys trucks and little girls dolls. Obviously little girls will grow up to want to play with dolls. And little boys are going to grow up with trucks. I listened to this for a few minutes and then I said, "Well, I disagree wholeheartedly with you." Instead of saying I disagree some, I said wholeheartedly, so I started in on this business of the stereo type in order to prove my point. I know I went off to the extreme, hardly admitting that there was any difference. Which is sheer folly. But, nonetheless, it was to show at least that some differences weren't biological, but were imposed. Some of the things we did to them. Mainly because I don't like his wife, I don't like his children. Because the little girl is the princess, and the little boy is the king. And each one of them has their very own stereotypical little roles, even at this age.But that really got to her. That I would stand up against, among other people, expounding this thing really bugged her. She would much rather have had me said nothing at all. Just to have been completely quiet. That just not for me. That's what we used to always have difficulty with. She used to always talk to me on the way home from parties or little get-togethers, two people, four people, four people getting together [inaudible pharse0:21:30] the lecture time. She'd tell me where I have done wrong.
 I dread this. I'm bound And boxed in.
 Sounds like you're still angry at her.
 Either hurt or put down. You'd like to strike out a turn. 0:26:19
 Does she know it hurts You?
 I get feeling that "So they really don't see me, see all of me. Sometimes one size fits And they draw conclusions. 
 Sounds like it is both [inaudible 0:30:28] acting on things.
 Something that has to be worked out.
 Why is it so important what You do?0:31:54
 It is all your fault.
 OK. Maybe that fits into the whole pattern then. 
 Don't open your mouth, be quiet, look out, you're going to get in trouble.0:33:35
 It is hard for You to hold on to the positive all by yourself.
 [inaudible 0:34:37]
 I tell you what I hear. A feeling, a kind of validity in that somewhere. But it is very hard to hold on to when I feel that nobody else feels that. People are always, "be different. Don't be the way you are." Seeming very unaccepted And that makes it very hard to hold on to what you sense is there. But you know somehow they can't see it. They don't like it or something.
 How long can I hold on to it?
 Did you feel, welcoming?
 And you didn't want it because you felt they couldn't see the difference, they couldn't tell it really wasn't any.
 Something in there says, "OK, sounds like maybe he accepted me because I have a child And it's his child's age. In a very conforming sense, I guess that was the more personal thing.
 But not that he thought I was good anyway. Is it possible to commit to that.
 To hear her criticize the way you were doing it...
 I gather it is very hard for you to turn around And say, "Let me talk. And somehow explode back at her.
 Now if [inaudible phrase 0:45:19] well just opened it all up.
 It is like a chip off that block.
 That can be very undermining. 0:46:34
 Feeling real shaky with that. Somehow I can't help her And I can't reach her. 0:47:52
 It seems like a very restricting thing. Well, I'm bound to this relationship this unit with someone, And I can't really have a close relationship with anyone else.0:52:04 
 Like to be able to have something to tell her.0:54:20
 Sharing a lot.
 And you're...
 I thought they were together.
 It was beyond this fantasy kind of thing, coming into possibility.
 Be out in the cold.
 Yeah, they can get pretty off.
 We'll see you.
 I'd rather not do that. I'd rather just put off the payment then to break up the (inaudible) that sort of makes it disjointed and you won't get the best out of it.
 Yeah. Bummer, to say the least.
 Can you tell me more about it? How it happened and?
 I didn't hear any ... no ... the last thing I heard was that he was checking with some publisher and you were concerned about copy (ph) to the publisher or not. [0:02:07]
 20 pounds.
 What's ...
 What are you feeling now as you talk about it?
 There's nothing you can see right now. Just ...
 Incredibly competitive.
 Right. Right.
 So what happened? Did you tell her?
 So how did you?
 How did you experience that? Was that a ... did you ... was it helpful?
 (inaudible) I mean, I'm glad you're doing that, but I guess one of the big ... well, I think you're really hoping ...
 Right. So where are you at with that ... what she said?
 That gets right to the bottom line.
 You said, "All the time." (Chuckles)
 When did ... so when did that ... when did she make those condemnations?
 That was on the telephone.
 I'm not clear. What happened?
 When you told her about ...
 And she's not supportive of that. She thinks that's a real digression?
 So ... there's one thing I'm not clear ... you were devastated two days ago, but you're feeling better now.
 Stronger now.
 But it's not what you were really looking for from him. [0:17:48]
 And she said, what?
 She could go with you. Maybe that as well.
 It sounds like in this moment where you really sustained this loss that she was sort of "I told you so" and critical.
 Take a grenade for you.
 So "I told you so" and being critical as opposed to what? What would have been an attack if that were not an attack? What are you comparing it to?
 Can't say enough for that.
 And that's all related to how you see yourself.
 They're not so sure.
 It's a hard call. Can I ask you a question? I'm sort of curious about what it was like for you to actually come here with that news about rejection.
 Right. Let me ask you another question. If I were ask you to imagine what I might be thinking about you and your abilities, your work abilities, what would you think?
 Right. Right.
 (overlapping voices) ... and you wouldn't be concerned that I would think less of you.
 How come?
 Right.
 It was your fault.
 The reason why I asked you those two questions is sometimes I have a sense that ... I think over the ... lately in particular, that you're trying to convey to me ... in a way you're concerned that I might be seeing you as incompetent in some way and that you're trying to convey to me that, "Look, I'm producing. I can do these things." And so I had that concern that ...
 ... that deep down that that was maybe an implicit concern of yours. [0:30:19]
  In and of itself.
 Right. Right.
 The critical feature. [0:32:02]
 Yeah. See the reason why ... one of the things that made me think about this more is when we talked, I think a couple of weeks ago about this, and you were very excited because you had just met with them finally.
 And you seemed pretty confident to me on the phone. And yet at the same time, you also told me about this ... that you needed to go to this publisher, the publisher they were going to use, and that from your perspective, they probably weren't going to be positive about your work. They were probably going to look for something different. And so it made me think, you know, on the one hand you're very positive and you're like, "This is great. I had this great contact with this director." But then the other hand is this wide window here of possibility that you could get rejected because of this publisher.
 I guess I saw it and ...
 And that wasn't to take anything away from this ... your perception of having this good contact with ... it just seemed like there was this great possibility.
 It probably was. But ...
 (chuckles) I mean, I don't know if it just comes down to the color of the photography. [0:34:02]
 When I told you that, did you remember what you felt?
 No, just ...
 That window.
 Yeah. I did ... I don't know. I mean, I saw it as a ... as a legitimate possibility. And I guess I ... the reason why that ... another reason why I called (inaudible) so salient to me is that I felt like I conveyed that to you. And I wasn't as excited as you were about it. And then I heard that it was like ... oh.
 And then when I got off the phone (inaudible), "You know, I didn't share in his enthusiasm. I hope he ..."
 What are you saying to yourself right now? Can you just freeze-frame and think about it?
 And what are you saying about yourself?
 Right.
  By your own, yeah.
 Any awareness of what you're feeling now?
 Yeah, see, I have that same experience. There's almost ...
 I didn't follow that.
 Then ... I see what you're saying. Okay. See, I had a similar sense that ... see I'm trying to ... my suspicion is that your self-critical voice, your emotional self-critical voice is operating here, and that's why I asked you to freeze-frame. But then what I hear, it does sound intellectual, it sounds ... you're justifying your actions, justifying your enthusiasms, justifying how you've operated in terms of pursuing that. And I don't know if I'm digging for something ... or putting something there that isn't there, but I had a similar sense that there's something ... maybe something else there, that this seems very intellectual to me.
 And that you're struggling in some way to maintain the intellectual front. Does that make sense to you?
 So you're saying you're really unrealistic.
 Which is ...
 So if we were to distill this into a single sentence - "I am unrealistic, I am ..." what? How would you?
 Okay, can you say that?
 Can you say, "I'm ..." what was it? "I'm unrealistic."
 ... immature ...
 Can you sit with those for a sec? What?
 Yeah.
 I have two experiences of you right now. I guess they're similar. One is that you're sort of fighting not to look at yourself as gullible and immature and that you're being really elusive.
 But I'm talking about right now, being elusive. I'm talking about ... you know, in a way, I'm trying to get you to focus on what's going on for you. [0:48:07]
 And I feel like just when you're right about there at the feeling, you kind of slip away from me.
 So the risk is ...
 Right.
 So what are ... stepping back right now ... what are you doing right now? What are you saying to me? What are you doing? [0:50:06]
 Well I don't want to take anything away from what you're saying right now, because I think that the grand scheme perspective, but I want to go back to the actual transaction that we're having where there was a resistance apparently to actually staying with the notion of being gullible and immature and unrealistic. And you said something about being in a condemnation. [0:52:16]
 Something that fought there, the quality, final quality to it.
 I think we're really ... this all seems very critical to me. I also realize we're well over, so I want to relieve (ph) it this way, that I'd like to really think about and listen to the tape, particularly the last 15, 20 minutes or so ... kind of important. I'd like to pick up on it unless something really pressing emerges, but at our next session I'd like to pick up on those because it's important to me.
 Yeah, but you know I think how you see yourself and how you fear to see yourself has a lot of implications for how you perceive the world and perceive your worth and your role in the world and that's why it all ties together.
 Yeah, that's one aspect of it. I want to flesh it out more.
 Oh, sure.
 Good morning. 
 Right. 
 Wow. 
 Right. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Good. 
 Probably a felon.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:11:51].3 to [00:12:13].4) 
 Mm-hmm.
 My impression is that you kind of would like sort of a road map from me. Okay, look Trina, here's how the first week is going to go. [0:14:10.6]
 Here's what you do. 
 Here's what's going to happen the second week. And here's how you should handle that. And this is what you should expect and watch out for. 
 And then week three in the beginning it's going to—(inaudible at 00:14:23].1). 
 But something like that. And I have the impression some of your focus on that is to do with wanting to look away from how sad it all feels. 
 And I have the impression there is something about feeling sad about it here that's difficult. And I'm not sure what. Whether there is kind of a vulnerability that goes along with it or something else that's uncomfortable. [0:15:18.0]
 Mm-hmm. 
 Sorry how was she?
 Just pitying or really sort of like you were three or? Like you were a total wreck? 
 You may be a bit in denial about what's happened. [0:22:39.1]
 Well (pause at 00:22:43].0 to [00:23:05].5) you wish you had a more positive attitude about things. You're mad at your mom for addressing the part of you—or whatever she was doing, however it felt—for addressing the part of you that feels like a wreck over this. And I think things feel pretty amicable with Franklin right now. [0:23:45.7]
 And (pause at 00:23:49].5 to [00:23:59].7) I'm not saying they should be acrimonious. I'm not saying you should be miserable 24/7 and wallowing every minute. And I'm not saying you should have a crummy, pessimistic attitude about all of this. But I do think you may be kind of in denial or really keeping at arm's length your feelings about what's happened. In that (pause at 00:24:35].1 to [00:24:55].0) he really—in a kind of consistent, ongoing, not impulsive but more kind of planful or calculated way—betrayed your trust in him. [0:25:11.6]
 And I guess it seems to me you're—I'm not saying you forgot about that. But that you're not really wanting to remember what that felt like. And some of what it meant to you. 
 I guess it's not the same but it starts to seem a bit reminiscent of what happened before you found out. 
 Where you'd find out something or you'd worry about something. And he would kind of talk you out of it. Because you didn't want to believe it or think about it that way either. [0:28:38.8]
 And I guess that's part of why I'm bringing it up because this seems similar. 
 Yeah. What's at stake this time is the future and not the past in a way. 
 You seem to be—I guess that's as sometimes before –. Maybe I'm misreading you on this. But to me it looked like you're kind of looking for my response a little bit there. Like you're sort of giving me the part of it where it's like, "Nope, Trina you will not talk to him. And you will not –." I mean I'm (inaudible at 00:32:00].7). 
 Maybe both are a response to your own [ambivalence]. 
 Right. 
 Sure. 
 Mm. (pause at 00:34:12].2 to [00:34:31].7) 
 Is that the denial right there when you say, "(inaudible at 00:38:35].3) eyes and tells me he loves me. And it doesn't make any less real what he did." I bet in the moment it does. [0:38:42.6]
 I know it doesn't in some objective sense. (inaudible at 00:38:53].5)
 I see. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. Well we should stop for now. 
 Today is March 7th, 1994. 
 Oh, I see.
 Yes, you thought it was an ongoing process that might be never-ending, right? Yeah.
 So here we are.
 Why don't you tell me a little bit about yourself?
 Right. So you worked with him just for a month that last time.
 Right.
 What's your sense of what you'd like to work on?
 Lots of things? Yeah.
 Can you tell me a little bit more about that? When does that seem to happen for you? What's it like?
 Is that true of the person you're with now?
 So where does that leave you? 
 And you feel you do.
 So one of the things you want to look at is being able to trust people and trust yourself I think I'm hearing. Is that correct, in terms of what you want and working with your husband, you know, developing your relationship?
 How are you feeling, talking about this?
 Uh-huh. What else are you feeling?
 Me too, right.
 Are you thinking about the camera?
 Yeah, that's understandable.
 So do you have a sense of what the nervousness is about?
 So it's important to be natural and to speak your mind and say what you need to say.
 Phony people. 0:10:28.7
 You feel that I'm really looking at you and studying you and sort of... I mean is that the sense that, you know, you have?
 And now the camera is trained on you, I'm trained on you, and you're on the hot seat.
 Well, maybe we can start where you are right now with just feeling a little nervous and maybe full of questions about the process and who I am and what this is all about. I mean that's... 0:12:17.9
 Right.
 Will you have any questions you'd like to ask about it or things that you're thinking about right now?
 Yeah. Well, what did that feel like, going right into it? 
 Felt kind of swift, huh?
 So you felt that just happened quickly and we were into the heart of it and yeah...
 I asked you about yourself and you started to talk about your relationship.
 You went right into it.
 And I guess I stayed with you there. But you know, you were bringing it up, sort of your relationship. 
 Well, the way... I mean maybe it would be good at this point to talk a little bit about the way this therapy works.
 One of the things that this therapy is about is really sort of staying close to one's feelings and one's experience and working with that, and a lot of times how you feel is very sort of indicative of your state and things that you might want to talk about. 
Another thing that we'll look at is the patterns in your life and the way in which sometimes one repeats negative patterns and what is actually happening in that regard and sort of look at that and try to bring it, as much as possible, into the room to talk about it in the here and now. And in some ways sometimes what is happening sort of in your outside life can take place here too, because of your having a relationship with me, and that might have parallels to what you're experiencing outside so we use it sort of as a laboratory. 
And you know, we'll see how it goes, but the focus is really sort of to try to stay in the experience and to look at what is happening in your life and see what it is about.
 That's okay. I hope I like who it is.
 You can't remember.
 So you know, you're getting to know me. You're having, you know...
 Am I sort of looking at you too much? Are you feeling like I'm really looking at you, as I am right now? Are you feeling observed a little bit?
 Right, right. So maybe it feels a little intense right now.
 Uh-huh. Can you explore that a bit? I mean this is...
 Do you feel it physically right now? Do you have any sort of physical sense of what...
 What did you picture?
 Well, do you have some concerns that you're supposed to be a certain way here? I'm wondering if you feel you're supposed to be more relaxed than you are.
 And the first thing I said to you is "wrong chair." Yeah, right, right. Yeah.
 What did you want me to ask you? Did you have anything in mind? 0:20:03.9
 Yes, yes.
 Well, maybe you're feeling some... I don't know, but maybe you're feeling some reluctance to talk, and would it be helpful if I asked you questions? Would that be helpful for you right now?
 Probably, huh?
 Less than probably though. Maybe yes...
 Some people aren't listening to each other?
 What would you like me to know about you? 
 So you know the first thing we really talked about was trusting, who you can trust, and I think that you were talking about it in relation to your fianc�, but I think it's really sort of apropos here, and maybe that was really quick to sort of get into that. And I'm wondering how you felt about talking about that so quickly, the issue of trust.
 What makes you say that?
 Yeah, yeah, I do. I'm wondering what it feels like, saying this? Do you have any sense of how you're feeling as you're talking about it?
 I'm just curious, maybe you can tell me a little bit more. I don't know quite what you mean when you say you don't want to sound pompous about talking...
 Sound what? More like... 0:30:20.9
 Like you've become detached from the feeling.
 Yeah, yeah. So I think by you telling me, that you want me to know that you feel deeply about these things.
 So do you do this a lot, where you listen to yourself speaking?
 And critique it as you're speaking?
 Well, it's not cold, that's for sure. 0:32:17.0
 It's sort of, yeah, on the warm side, I think. This room changes a bit. Sometimes it's nippy and sometimes it's sort of hot actually, and it's on the warm side for me.
 No. I feel it too a little bit.
 Well, I think you were talking about important things and this is a new situation and I'm new and I'm new to you and you're new to me and I think that's sort of in the foreground right now.
 Well, you also said you wanted to be more assertive.
 How does that manifest?
 Which is... What's your idea about it?
 You don't wind up feeling good. 0:38:05.1
 So when you say, "This is what I want," what are you experiencing when you say that? Can you say it to me, "This is what I want"?
 Just what did you feel? Maybe sort of the moment has passed in a way, but I was wondering, when you said that, you know, you said, "This is what I want," or what the feeling attached to that was when you said it.
 And if you owe someone something...
 ...you feel guilty.
 What is the feeling of guilt? What is that like?
 And what would happen if you didn't?
 You'd feel terrible.
 But you know you would feel terrible.
 You want to know what their complaint was. 0:42:20.1 
 Because you're not paying him?
 And what does that mean, not paying him? It means...
 Yes, you're not in control.
 And being out of control feels like...
 That drives you crazy, yeah.
 And that's sort of what's happening right now in your relationship?
 Are you sick?
 Yeah.
 Hi.
 Yeah. (Inaudible)
 (Inaudible).
 Yeah.
 So I'm curious - I'm curious at where you're at. And I'm curious about you getting sick. I also am very aware of where we ended for (inaudible).
 Stress Disorder.
 I'm - I'm wanting - I'm kind of torn between the going into ...what's going on inside you with you being sick.
 But where we ended last time.
 Do you remember?
 Yeah. Because it's - it may best to work on the control instead of working on the content.
 Yeah. Where are you at with?
 You know. Or what is it for you?
 And let's make sure that you're talking about the same thing. [5:39]
 I don't know. Is that the radiator?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Well here's how - here's partially how I've heard you.
 And ... you're saying there's - that you're not quite sure what you think and feel about it. And I at the end of the session pointed to the fact that I wasn't quite sure what you meant by that. But I wondered if part of what you were asking was ... can I help you with this?
 Like am I occupied?
 You know?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's right. And you're not those things, right? I mean that the way you say that well you may fit - that may describe you on some levels. But I agree that that's not a clich�.
 Yeah. [11:27]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But see I don't know how you experience worthless (inaudible).
 And I - let me tell you sort of what I mean by that.
 My experience with you is you spin your wheels a lot.
 You - you're very adapt at thinking. But I don't know what you're feeling is. 
 Do you right now - you do beautiful philosophical treatise but I'm not quite sure I as I sit here where we're at.
 From my end is I'm not sure.
 Yeah. Now. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Is that part of this?
 Okay.
 Like there's.
 Yeah.
 When I'm - when I say I'm not quite sure what you mean by worthless yet. What - how does that feel?
 Yeah. [14:16]
 Yeah. You take away a part of yourself.
 When you say those words I have more of a center (ph).
 You know?
 Yeah.
 So what did you say to him?
 What would happen if you said something? What are you afraid might happen?
 So you're afraid that you would make him.
 Were you angry when (inaudible)?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay. So.
 Let's - let's keep it here. 
 What do you want? Or what is the feeling?
 Yeah.
 So and.
 And how - when you say you want something from me.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 So you want that from me and you - and you haven't been getting it in the way you want it.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Maybe that's sort of what I experienced last week at the end of the session which is why I want to go back to it.
 Which is that it felt like you know you felt something strong like.
 What do you know about worthlessness? How can you help me?
 And then it quickly when subterranean. You know it quickly when underground. And.
 Yeah but I don't care.
 About.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Yeah. [24:56]
 Yeah but see.
 Okay. So that's very rational.
 And that's very reasonable. But see this is a space where we can let go of some of that.
 So right away you had - so somehow all of those thoughts obscure, of being - of you being able to experience and of us being able to feel and experience.
 A feeling like that. You know like right now when you said come on God dammit I want something from you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's - you're talking to one of your former husbands?
 Yeah.
 See what I'm - so you can understand my logic - I mean I want to grab it in here.
 Because then it will be alive. If it - the problem is that I don't play a role in your life like somebody.
 So it's easy to say it's not his job. I need to find my term. But if we can let go of even a little bit.
 For the sake of.
 (Inaudible) it happens out there too. Okay. For the sake of experimenting but or say that way if you can understand what happens between us and the way you make a feeling go underground.
 And what - how did I back off? 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 So it felt like ... like you wanted something right then from me. And I kind of backed off. Or what.
 But how did it feel? Did it feel like I was letting you down? Or did it feel like I was wimping out? Did it?
 Yeah. Yeah.
 I can't deal with that right now.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 She said drop it.
 Right. So she's suggesting a strategy. I'm actually suggesting probably the opposite strategy.
 You know?
 Right. But you're.
 I'm suggesting how do you understand? Or do you want me to say?
 If you feel moments of worthlessness.
 That ... I don't think it's - I think that that could be integrated into a larger, functional you. You know that it's to be taken seriously.
 Well I - I don't know why. I mean I can spin for you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [30:31]
 You feel - I'm not quite sure how to go. Because I feel like unless I answer you (laughs) I'm going to be wimping out for you. You know? Let's find out what's - let's say - I mean.
 Yeah.
 If I - if I answer I'm not sure how it's going to help. I don't know how (inaudible) give you an answer that'll help.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well worthless ... (inaudible).
 Okay. That's fair.
(Pause)
 Yeah feel like that. [33:25]
 Like I could disintegrate. 
 Like sand. 
 Yeah.
 What do you feel like right now?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 What do you feel like when I talk about myself?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. What about (inaudible)?
 Yeah on your face.
 Yeah.
 Do you feel very alone in that?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And you're saying that ... have you felt that in here like?
 That split between.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Well.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Now let me ask you this. What - what's it feel like that for you right now?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Right.
 Right.
 But you're saying that you - it's like you can't quite be here until you know who you're here with.
 You know and I'll tell you the truth that you know it doesn't - it is not exactly ... you know about therapy has social norms to it. It (inaudible).
 That I'm here to help you.
 But I'm thinking in an intuitive way it makes a lot of sense to me.
 As a person that makes a lot of sense to me. I've had - I've had feelings very similar in my own therapy. So. So it makes sense to me. Although again there - you are different from me in some ways.
 And I'm always more curious about ... what you know subtleties of what it feels like to.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So curious - how.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible).
 Yeah.
 So you - so - it's like we want - you want to know that I'm something about you but it's not curious because curious - that word has a kind of scientific ring.
 In that moment.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay.
 Anything substantial.
 And that's what?
 Okay. We'll pick up with that.
 Are you?
 Yeah.
 That's - that's - the other number is like (inaudible) and I prefer not to be called on.
 That's this office. That rings in this office.
 I have another office as well.
 And that's the office number for.
 To be at - all of us.
(Pause)
 Yeah.
 This is 11 if I remember.
 That's sly?
 It's 11.
 Thanks.
 It feels like you don't want to leave.
 You're welcome. No. It was great.
 Okay.
 See you ... next Monday at five?
 Bye-bye now.
 Oh, hi, Cecelia. I'm out of water. I need to change the water. I'm sorry about that. Come on in. (pause) [00:04:18]
 You can certainly get some from the bathroom if you want. I know it's not as nice as the water from...
 I'm sorry?
 In the back. (pause) (phone ringing) [00:05:49]
 I think I was talking about assumptions you're making. Extrapolating. 
 Yeah, I wonder. It did seem confusing and I'm not sure what that means. Like it seems important that that's confusing, and I'm happy to repeat myself, but—would you like me to?
 Well, if someone passes you in the hallway, and doesn't say "Hi," -
 There's a lot of different explanations for it. They didn't see you, they just got bad news—all sorts of things. They don't like you anymore maybe, there's all sorts of ways to interpret that. But what you were talking about is interpreting people as sort of snubbing you, or neglecting you. And there's a wide variety of behavior that's interpreted with that interpretation. And I think that was what I was commenting on. 
 No, when you interpret what other people are doing.
 Or not doing.
 And your assumption that people are treating you as if you're not important, that if they don't say anything they're inherently not welcoming you. 
 Does that make sense? [00:08:40]
 Mm-hmm.
 That was your reading of what I said?
 I see.
 With an H?
 The only "H" one I know is hysterical.
 Do you think—do I think you're hysterical? Why, did you think you're hysterical? [00:11:21]
 You got scared by that? [00:12:22]
 What's scary about that?
 Is this the poetry person?
 I mean the poetry person at the school. I'm assuming you know him.
 Are you okay?
 Anyway, a cinnamon tree will grow in your belly.
 Do they say that to kids in India? 
 Do you have hard candy? You have a hard candy and you swallow it, and then a peppermint tree grows in your belly.
 Yeah, the cinnamon tree sounds nicer. [00:15:49]
 Maybe not.
 You talk very softly sometimes, Sometimes you talk more softly than others.
 Yeah. (pause) [00:21:35]
 It's an old film. I mean, like, ten, fifteen years old. 
 Maybe so.
 Well, nine years old.
 "Amelie"? That movie was?
 Oh, got it. Right.
 Wait, I'm not sure, to meet Victor's parents?
 To meet Victor's parents?
 When did you do that? 
 Oh, you saw his parents there.
 Just because?
 I don't think you mentioned this. [00:26:31]
 What does he speak? 
 He's from like northern India or Iran?
 I'm sorry?
 They speak Indo-Iranian there? 
 (sneezes)
 I don't think so. (pause)
 (sneezes)
 You've been sad about her comments?
 Sorry, I didn't hear that. Because I was thinking about your friend in class I felt wasn't supportive. [00:31:12]
 I was thinking about that, this sort of, this feeling that there's not enough accolades to go around. This competition 
 I thought about this expression—the apple of the dad's eye, or the father's eye? Have you heard this expression?
 That's what I thought about, I thought about this longing to be the apple of your dad's eye. 
 To be special. (pause) And admired. 
 Do people come up to you in the street and tell you that? [00:35:28]
 David.
 People?
 Is he people? He sounds like a person. 
 Mm-hmm. (pause) But you know this about him.
 You knew this is how he thinks about things, that his emotions are constricted, and there are a lot of topics that make him anxious, and he likes to focus on things that are clear for him, and things that are fraught with anxiety or pain are not things that he likes to deal with. And that's where his advice is coming from. 
 Well, I think you're selling yourself short. Because, I mean, I said that based on what you've told me. 
 How do you mean?
 You don't always feel that way.
 You also expressed disappointment when you were telling me—I guess, when you were in India, and you had that memory of being molested by neighbor? Was it a neighbor?
 A friend of a relative. And he felt, he shut down the conversation very quickly. And you felt disappointed that he couldn't engage with you in that way.
 I mean, in that sense, it was a quote-en-quote, objective evaluation, because you think in so far as you see his limitations. 
 Fruitful how?
 So I guess everything we do here isn't fruitful at all. [00:40:39]
 Sure. (pause)
 So was the dream where—I didn't, I wasn't able to distinguish between the dream and not the dream. What was the dream?
 Do you remember the details? 
 David's, or David's parents were connected? [00:44:19]
 David's place was connected to Victor's parents in Pakistan. 
 Wait, Victor was doing, or his father?
 What do you think about the dream?
 Why not?
 Why not?
 The narrative that you're supposed to believe? 
 Sometimes you'd like to follow.
 So the point of narratives is that they're time-saving? Do you like writing time-saving narratives? 
 We need to stop for today, Cecelia, okay? I will see you on Monday.
 10:15, you got it. Take care. Hope you feel better.
 So how are you doing [PATIENT NAME]?
 Hum, like how?
 Down like —
 Sad?
 About something or —
 Not because it's rough with someone at home or school —
 But you're down?
 Then when you're down you're pretty mad?
 So emotional?  Is it getting worse over time or about the same since we met last time?
 Just get better or —
 Okay.
 That's [INAUDIBLE].
 Okay.
 So kind of angry too, right?
 At home with everyone or anyone special?
 Huh, everyone?
 More at school.
 Okay, but now with school out and being at home all the time —
 Not as much?
 How about sleep, how's that?
 And thinking about stuff or just waking —
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Hum.
 So when you wake up and you start thinking, what stuff that's happened the day previously?
 Oh.
 From even —
 Way back when, I see.  I see so you kind of you think and think and think until you tire yourself and then you fall asleep.
 And then you're up again?
 Um—hum.
 Hum.
 Um—hum.
 Hum.
 So when you think back about stuff that's happened from a long time ago —
 What kinds of stuff do you think about?
 Oh.
 Um—hum.
 But do you still go back to that, and when you think about when you used to live with your dad, what kinds of feeling is that?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum, so you illuminate about it a lot?
 That makes it even harder than it would be otherwise.  It must be pretty hard anyway.
 Especially with —
 Well —
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 Then the Abilify, right —
 And then the Tegretol?
 And the Tegretol —  Um—hum.
 Five point nine and it's good.  I mean the lab says it's good for if it's between 4 and 12.
 But really it's good if it's between 5 and 12.
 So it's 5.9 smidgen —
 Above the lower but —
 Still within the range, so we have a little bit of leeway of upping that.  Now, you're getting the Effexor for quite a while, right?
 And before that you'd been on Paxil, Zoloft, Celexa, Wellbutrin.  Well, the, the Effexor is kind of on the lower side —
 So we ought to up that just to get the spirits up a little bit better [PATIENT NAME].  Uh, and the Tegretol is okay, and we may or may not have to up it —
 But uh, we may have to because —
 Because I said, it's kind of on the lower side of the range.
 Let's first do the Effexor and see if that helps just with the depression the way you're describing it [PATIENT NAME] and the sadness and thinking back on things from the you know distance past —
 Um —
CG: And they we'll um, not touch [INAUDIBLE].  Now, would that um, help her if she go back, get up and go to the bathroom and help her go back to sleep?
 Trazodone, I can give you some of that.
CG: Okay.
 Thank you, see [PATIENT NAME] back in about a month or so.
CG: Okay, okay, thank you [PHYSICIAN NAME].
 Today is February 15th. This is Carrie's seventh session with Tyler.
 Why?
 You're not making sense. Why are you miserable?
 That was a very - I can understand that. 
 What was that like for you to go there, where are you at? Why don't you just cry?
 Okay, and like when did you start feeling this way?
 Was it Saturday night when this all started?
 Yeah. 
 No, I didn't see it. 
 I have some problems with my feelings too. 
 Yeah, yeah. I mean you are just bombarded by textbook (inaudible 2:47) just bombarded and that is just not where you are at right now. 
 That is a strange event you went to, by the way. 
 Yeah, I'm not surprised that you are upset by that. I had trouble (inaudible 3.27). Okay; and I think most people do. 
 Things are really tough? 
 Yeah, you're really down. 
 I don't know. My head is swimming in all the terrible stuff and how terrible you are. Now what I want to hear you say is something more specific; like I am having a hard time grabbing a hold of it.
 Yeah, why are you so terrible? Give me a specific thing where you really fucked it up. 
 Like for example? What do you do; give me a more specific. 
 A lot of minds are blown by that; let me tell you; okay. As a matter of fact the woman I went with last year had her mind blown out by that. She did the same thing you were doing. So that is a bad example. I mean everybody, by what you are saying, everyone seemed to walk around all cool and handle this thing and you were the only one that had all those feelings and you had a hard time hanging on to but I saw examples of it all over the place. I'm reassuring you now, okay. 
 That was hard, very, very hard for you there. And you probably were caught by surprise too, somewhat. I mean I didn't know, even I went last year and I didn't have any sense, but they really did it this year. They really grossed everybody out this year, I think. 
 Oh my god what?
 Yeah, you are. 
 Well, you did an interesting thing today. I watched you downstairs and I watched you walk through the hall and you looked miserable until you came into this office. So why are you smiling? Huh? Why are you smiling at me? I know you don't feel that way. 
 Well why smile at me?
 Well, I'm afraid what that does is it pushes away from where you are at and what we need to do is get to it instead of pushing it away. I don't' know if that is true by the way but that is just a guess. I want you to get some of that miserable stuff out in here with me. I don't think you are miserable but you do so maybe we can get rid of some of it. 
 I'm going to like you no matter what you do with me, by the way. I mean, I like you intrinsically, not -  I'm very glad about that because when I don't, I have trouble being the therapist. 
 What specific -  talk more about your feelings like Saturday or now or whatever. You're helpless not hopeless the "what's the use" thing. 
 You might as well just cry, right. 
 Well, latch onto one of those things and tell me about it. 
 I care. 
 Well, who doesn't care, who were you with Saturday? 
 And how did that work out?
 When I saw you, you looked that way somehow. By the way, I liked your black-and-white dress and your pink beads. 
 And I liked the way you danced too, by the way. 
 You are very good, you're very good. 
 You are very good. 
 Oh yeah?
 Why? Why didn't you like me there?
 Checking up on you?
 Felt like what; tell me?
 Let me tell you how I felt when I saw you. I had a lot of counter transfer problems. I have a lot of problems like that in general like I was sexually stimulated beyond what I would like to be in a public situation. I have a lot trouble with that. Like the thing was so unreal for me in some way. It was a hard thing being in contact, I mean I can of course but like, I didn't want to and I wanted to, it didn't seem like, or it seemed a little like Juliet of the Spirits, didn't it?
 It was! That's only because it was; and that is not so easy. And then when I saw you I had the same feeling. Well, I didn't expect to see you. And then when I did I had such strong sexual feelings. In other words it was like hard for me to deal with that, like in some way you were intruding into my space. 
 You were like a polished apple that was just within reach. It was hard for me. 
 You were jealous? 
 But that just shows something about you doesn't it? I don't know. Like (inaudible 14:58) I gather that has some personal meaning for you but for you to see my personal life like that out in front. 
 Because? Talk more about-I don't know. But what you are saying is - I might have felt the same way except that you weren't into whoever you were dancing with. You never looked at your partner. So I didn't have to be jealous. I watched you a few times and - I watched you for quite a while actually. I figured well I don't' have to be jealous of him. Were you avoiding me, by the way?
16:04
 Saturday, like you said you saw me earlier? 
 No, I understand what you are saying. 
 By the way, Jean is not a bad person to talk to if you were feeling bad. 
 She's pretty good. So anyhow. So you felt more revealed then (inaudible 17:15) I know the feeling. I've probably told you about all my problems too. I don't' care if people know who I am but that is good information and nobody knows (inaudible 17:30). I mean I haven't said anything to anyone I know what we are like. I can see that really put your mind at rest. 
 Don't leave this office. 
 See I don't see that as stimulating your feeling for me, somewhat. 
 Yeah, especially when that outside life intrudes into your outside space.
 So how do you feel about me, I want to hear more about that? That is important, I want you hear you say it. 
 Is that why you don't want to cry? You don't' want to ruin your -
 I think of you often physically. Yeah, you are really tough as they say on the block. 
20:18
 That's amazing. That always amazes me. I mean I've heard that a million times in here from the most beautiful women in the world and you're one of them. That is really interesting.
 Say it. 
 Yeah, an interesting fantasy. It's not true of course. 
 In fact I moved away from you Saturday night because I just wanted to rip you off. 
22:06
 I have strong boundaries so I'm not going to do it. I have those strong feelings but I'll avoid you; I'm not going to do it. I want to help you through this though. I mean if you do decide to go to bed with someone I want to be able to help you with it. I'm going to be a brother to you, think of it that way. 
 Well, it would feel like incest to me right now; something reminds me of that. 
 It says; what does it say about you?
 You're untouchable. 
 I have good feeling about you and we will work something out. We'll work it out, I feel very good that we will. By the way, just don't hide from me and we'll work it out or I'll hang up my - we'll work it out. I have a strong feeling about that - just keep coming. But that is not what you are saying, what you are saying is you don't even think about getting married because that seems so distant. But what is it about yourself that - like let's say you and I went to bed, okay. No, let's use somebody else. Let's say you went to bed with someone else because I am so accepting that I would accept you no matter what you did. What is it about you, why wouldn't he like you? Where are the ugly parts of you that you are hiding? What would that be?
 You panic why? You think he couldn't handle your craziness?
 Yeah, okay, I get that. Now you can put on the front for a while but when you think of living with someone and having to put on a front all the time, if you live with someone that is impossible. Is that how you feel?
 I see, I see. And the other thing is that you are in pain and you are crashing and you see things crashing around you. 
 What time is your class tomorrow? 
 Where?
 Do you have a car or a bicycle. 
 You're afraid of tomorrow. 
 I'll tell you what I often do when I'm in those situations, when I am very scared, I very often open the class by saying that I am scared and I don't think it is going well and I am afraid. 
 For what? 
 Sounds like you are hanging on to that, waiting for that inevitable ax to come down across your neck. 
 What is that for? Is there anyone in your department who advises you that you can talk to about that? Like who is your supervisor for student teaching?
 Beatrice who?
 Can you talk to her?
 But can you talk to her about how you feel?
 Why not? Come on, why not?
 You ought to try talking to her once, at least, I think; that's my advice. Because the feelings that you are having about all this are very common; normal for student teaching and where you are at particularly and she may be able to even tell you something, like forget about your feelings, but she may be able to tell you something instrumental that you can do that will help. Can you talk to her today?
 You should do it in person. 
 Yeah, why don't you do that; take some advice from your counselor. 
 Well, you better not. I don't care whether you do your teaching but you better not leave. You are going to give me 20 hours or I am going to hunt you down. And don't stand me up either. 
 I did contribute to it, I think. I mean even though, and I think I did that and it's okay and we can deal with it. And I really like you and I really want to help you. Okay. And remember, I never promised you a rose garden. 
 It will probably get worse before it gets better, by the way. I mean, I really feel really washed out after I haven't slept in about 36 hours and I have a hard time operating and functioning but the other feeling I have is just a lot of sympathy for you Saturday; I mean that must have been really hard. 
 I was really surprised to see you there. 
 Yeah, because you didn't know what it would be like. 
 Yeah. Well, they really get into it don't they. 
 Well, what you are working with now is just partly, it's the sexual stimulation and how to deal with it and when it comes too fast you panic. Okay. When it comes at a rate that is hard to deal with you panic. And that thing was like, incredibly difficult for a lot of people, a lot of people. And then particularly for you since that is one of the issues you are working on right now, like how to get close to that sexual stimulation without it driving you up the wall. 
 Yeah, I know. 
 Yeah, you're blocked, of course. I like the way you dealt with that, denial. I feel sorry for them, not me, you're all right. You don't have any feelings. Yeah, I understand that it's okay. It's okay to block. 
 I think you came through that fairly successfully, by the way. You had no fear. 
 Why what happened?
 You were feeling?
 (inaudible 40:37) 
 All weekend? 
 Were you Saturday, in the buff?
 Who was the best?
 Well, I don't know how you can connect with someone.
 Well, what did you say? 
42:23
 And what was he saying about himself?
 Did you share that with him?
 And what did you say?
 Yeah, it sounds like he was talking, like he had the same problem as you. 
 Why not? What was wrong with him?
 Yeah, well, I don't know how good it is in that whole situation, I mean it was so bizarre and so atypical. And there is no (inaudible 45:11). I mean what you need is like gradual building into something, I think. And that was not a gradual event. 
 Okay, let's do what we can. There are two things you don't bring up in here. I have some issues and I want you to start with these issues. One is this issue thing like feelings about each other and what is holding things up. Two, my feelings; like I want you to start initiating my feelings. 
 Our feelings. I want you to get in touch with me. I feel today like I have done very good with getting in touch with your feelings. I'm not feeling very good because I was up sick all night. So I feel very off but like next time I am going to give you some stuff and I want you to read this stuff; not too carefully but look at it. And I need this back too by the way, but take from it what you want. Particularly this top one; that one, you don't have to read that one but the top two. You can look at the others but this is like the group, I want to do this in the group thing. But mainly for you I want you to do the top two. Look at them and go through them and pick out and try it. Try it here, there and everywhere. Try it in your class it will help you. 
 Okay? 
 You look miserable. Are you miserable?
47:38
 Wait, wait; sit down. 
 It's going to be hard. Maybe you shouldn't go tomorrow. 
 If you want to call me tomorrow at home after it is over and let me know how it went, good or bad. 
 Call. 
 Maybe this will help you a little bit in class, there are things like if someone yells at you in class or does something, - (sounds like turning pages in a book) don't take any of this stuff to seriously. Oh here. This is good. Will you be able to read these after school?
51:29
 Yeah, look at it because some of it will be totally irrelevant to where you are at but some of it will be okay. I want you to get into being into other peoples feelings, that will do two things, 1. It will make other people feel better with you and it will get you off the spotlight. 
 You don't have to respond to much now. You don't even have to react to someone right now. You could just say, "I know how you feel so and so." Your reflecting feeling is good in terms of getting in touch with someone but it is also good in terms of deflecting someone; you can do it both ways. If somebody comes up to you and says, "What kind of teacher are you, you white bitch?" And you can say, "I don't have to take that." Okay, so you are angry and that anger is in you and what good does that do for you? I'm sorry, I'm so out of it today. I am really washed out and wiped out. I almost called in today. 
 I haven't eaten in about 24 hours either; I can't eat. 
53:04
 I'm not feeling well. 
 Yeah, physically; and mentally too. I'm depressed. And that's bad. I'm the worst guy to get. I just got wiped out last weekend. I'm sitting on a lot of rage. I mean really rage and I am too tired to even deal with it now. Maybe you can help me deal with it. It is just bubbling and boiling over like I want to kill. I really want to kill. 
 Now, where am I? 
 No, not with you. It would be hard for me to be mad at you. But I if I was I would let you know about it. I need to be very careful about this stuff. 
 Although you can tell me though. 
 How about 10:30 Wednesday?
 If you want to call me tomorrow I will be at home. Call me one way or the other. 
 And I will probably be sleeping but that is okay. 
 Yeah. Just give me a minute when you call like if I sound groggy it's okay. Now, what time do you get done with class; 10:30?
 Then I might be in and out then. But if you call at 10:30 I would definitely be at home. 
 Call, call; call me. I'll try and be home so I can hear. What are you going to do now? Who are you going to talk to?
 Various things. Your dad coming.
 I think me not being definitely positive or affirming...
 That's not the way to say it. I didn't take it critically when you said it at all actually. I get partly about your being more negative or angry about things in here than you are elsewhere and how different that is for you and also how (pause) that in other therapy you had a tendency to be kind of in a pain management different. [00:01:12]
 What were they testing you for?
 Oh.
 You decided to go through with that?
 Yeah, the thing where the light turns on...
 Never did?
 Whatever. It didn't help.
 Oh.
 I think you had told me it was coming up.
 That's awful.
 Absolutely.
 Wasn't somebody at Microsoft's fault for not letting you know or did the school just let Microsoft know? [00:07:01]
 It got accepted?
 Like it's an additional form of self-sacrifice?
 Imposition?
 But were it somehow not for that... [00:11:03]
 It sounds like you're not (inaudible at 00:11:19) letting yourself do it, not letting yourself think about it.
 I'm sure it does. I'm not quite sure how yet. I mean I understand...
 It sounds like a lot of responsibility and guilt.
 Yeah. And even if you know you won't be it sounds like you at least have moments of feeling like you just want to be done. [00:14:42]
 And I'm sorry that you feel that way but it certainly makes sense given, at least what I've understood about, how you're hurting.
 Yeah. It sounds like you don't have any idea how you'll get through it.
 I think some of the feelings are very troubling to you.
 I imagine things feel more bleak if you stop pursuing them. (inaudible at 00:19:26).
 What's been hurting you the last couple of days in particular?
 It hurts all the time?
 I guess it's not indicative of you needing a hip replacement tomorrow?
 What did you have done?
 Do you want to pass on this one?
 You want a pass on this one?
 (inaudible at 00:25:22).
 Then bail. Lie about it. Do something else.
 Stay around the corner like whatever would be easiest for you.
 There aren't that many things unfortunately, even tragically, that would make your life much easier that you could do now. It sounds like one of them. [00:26:15]
 The point is it's stressing you out though and you really don't want to deal with that I think.
 I see.
 Figure other stuff out.
 Yeah.
 Sounds like a plan. [00:29:02]
 My impression is you're mostly really feeling shitty.
 And um...
 What is boring you in all this? [00:31:42]
 I'm wondering if it pisses you off.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Well I'm guess I'm not clear what you could have done. But I think your point that you're pretty bored with it at the same.
 Gotten out?
 Could that have made much difference?
 Like you didn't want to focus on how much you were hurting?
 Are any of the things you're doing now making things worse? [00:34:27]
 (inaudible at 00:34:47)
 I see and being more proactive about some of the symptoms could have helped. And you also said getting out of your marriage.
 And about imaging being with somebody who doesn't have those sorts of problems that he has? [00:38:19]
 Okay.
 Which ones are you thinking of?
 And who's are we talking about?
 I bet.
 Wait. What?
 Absolutely.
 Yeah, I guess somehow their admiration or even idolization feels like your responsibility which I don't know that it necessarily is.
 But I guess it really feels that way.
 In other words like it sounds like when people treat you that way it feels very much like you have to take care of them.
 Why?
 And (pause) that was something you agreed to when? I mean you know what I mean.
 We should stop for now.
 Tuesday.
 See you soon. [00:43:32]
 I'm going to review the forms and get started.  Okay.  Thank you.  So, things are getting better —
 Overall.
 Right.
 I see.
 Is important, very important.
 Yeah.
 Good.
 Good.
 Good.
 Right.
 How, how often do you go to bars?
 Not anymore?
 Because in the early recovery, you like to be off the environment.
 That would help you.  Once, the first year is very important.  Once you have a year of solid recovery and, and sobriety —
 Then you can have, feel like more confident, more comfortable.  Your mindset is ready to go for a challenge like that.
 But in the early recovery, you don't want to, uh, go for a risk because that, that, you put yourself under a lot of risk —
 And pressure.
 And pressure peer.  I mean nobody would know that you are recovering.  They are not, or some of them would feel like, oh, why don't we get the guy to do what we are doing.  It's just human nature.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Anxious, right.  And right now, you are on Lamictal?
 And you are up to the 200 mg?
 It was —
 Eight pills of the 25 because we used the starter kit.
 Right.
 Two of the 100s?
 Big pills?
 Right.
 Yeah, we have the —
 Because they are generic.
 I'll tell you what happens.  When we used it first, it was the brand name.
 It was the manufacturers, like the original company.
 When you get the, when you, when you get the generic form —
 Of Lamictal, they might be not exactly the same like the original.  I mean I think the FDA would allow them to have about 80% of, uh —
 Uh—huh.
 Close but —
 Not, not as, as fitting.
 Right.
 And you are using 10 mg of the Ambien?  It's the generic Ambien too?
 Zolpidem.
 Because they switched you.  If they have generics, they sometimes switch without you knowing.
 It's not working.
 Um—hum.
 Was not as, as, uh, clean?
 Was a little bit staying longer in your system?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Are you still on it, or did you switch to something?
 So you stopped that one, and then you, you got a new one?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And for bipolar disorder, a good night's sleep is very important.
 And something to keep in mind too, if you start to notice that your number of hours of sleep are going down, that could be an indication that there is something going on in the, in the mania side, you see.
 So, it's like kind of the thermometer of your —
 Mania, mania, is the sleep.
 Yeah, could be, oh, actually in the, in the initial more than at the end.  At the end, maybe it's more depression.  Like if you wake up early, usually that's depression problem, usually you see?  If you, if you cannot go to sleep, let's say if you have difficulty to start the sleep cycle —
 That could be more of a mania or depression.
 But anyway, any disturbance in sleep.
 Like, like generally.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 The, the lifestyle changes.
 Have you, have you lost weight?
 Let me get your weight.  Let's, let's, let's —
 How was it?
 One sixty five.  What's your height?
 Five seven.  All right, we'll double check that one too.
 Right.
 Little bit to the extreme?
 Um—hum.
 And what, what do you that when you are doing well or you do that when you are down more, or has it been steady?
 You get anxious?
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 But, but [PATIENT NAME], overall, do you think that we are on the right track —
 With the medications?
 I believe so.
 So, what, what, what I think is important from now on is keep taking your meds.
 And, uh, now figure out, I mean which brands that work for you, and which wouldn't.  I mean which pharmacy you get it from.
 To the brand name.
 And the best results, the more, uh, accurate outcomes and, and actually the, the best way to do it is just go with what works for you.
 If you think that the brand name will work, work better for you, maybe you're going to pay a little bit more, but —
 At the same time, you, it's worth it.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Okay.
 Very good.  So, would you say that on the meds, the relationship is getting better?
 Regrets, some guilt —
 Are you still in touch with her?
 Of course.  When you have your kids?
 Your daughter from.  How old is your daughter?
 Okay.
 And I know that this is very sensitive issue for you.
 When, when we talked about it, I know that your daughter is very important to you, and —
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.
 About the relationship?
 Would you say that the relationship between you and your daughter is better now on meds?  Do you have more patience?  Do you have, uh, more interest in doing things with her?
 Would you say, would you notice that because that is kind of the thing that you sometimes —
 Right.
 And you had, and my understanding that he's doing very well in baseball.
 To do, to go —
 So what, so here, here is what you are saying.  You are doing more with your son.
 You are more interested in, uh, the activities and the interaction with your daughter.
 The relationship is getting a little bit better.
 The work is getting a little bit better.  You are less, less irritate, irritable —
 Around the coworkers and the, and the, uh —
 And the customers.
 Okay.  Well, that's all good news.  What, what you are working on now is, again, very important.  The, um, the, uh, lifestyle changes.  Okay.  Uh, so [PATIENT NAME] let's stay with the medications.
 Do you need refills or are you good?
 So you have one, another 30 days supply?
 On both?
 Lamisil.
 Do you need prescription for Lamictal just in case you need it?
 Go, go for the brand name.
 If, if it works a little bit better for you.
 Ambien would give you exactly what you expect.
 Well, the, the brand name.
 Right.
 Because it's different.  The filling is different, so the, the, uh, time it's going to be in your system may be different.
 Lamictal 200 mg.  Do you take it in the morning or at night?
 Morning.  Okay.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Continue.
 No, no.  Don't, don't —
 Go back and forth.  No, if it is just one or two days, you are good.  You are good to go.
 All right.  So how about that?  Let's stay with these medications.
 Same amount for a couple of months, eight weeks or so.
 Stay with your lifestyle changes that you are doing.  If you notice any problems, of course, let us know.
 But otherwise, I think we are on the right track.
 I think we are on the right track.
 Yeah.  Good.
 I think we are.
 Any, anything else?
 You think that —
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
 Okay. Now we can start.
 Did you call her? Did you call her? Was it -
 Okay.
 I need to be done. [02:39]
 He would pay for both of them then? [03:14]
 Yeah.
 That's a lot of pressure to put on you and to make you responsibility for that. [03:48]
 What do you think she's right about?
 Ahh.
 I think that's a really important piece. Yes, she might be right about that, that it probably would feel awkward for her to ask him for money for something that he's not going to. But that's not your responsibility.
 And it...I think and, this is just my opinion, that it's a little bit unfair for her to pressure you to solve her money issue. That's a big thing for you to kind of pay for emotionally. [04:56]
 Because basically, what she's asking is your happiness is worth giving up to pay for the plane ticket on your graduation day. Not your happiness forever, but your happiness and your comfort on your own graduation day is worth the cost of the plane ticket.
 That seems a little unfair to me. [05:24]
 Right.
 But you don't have that relationship.
 And you pretending that you do doesn't make it so.
 Yeah. [06:50]
 You both have a lot of tension between you?
 And she didn't hear it? [07:36]
 Yeah, it's really hard because it sounds like you did...you did a good job about the things that were in your control. You were able to express what you were feeling. You were pretty honest with her. And that's the piece you have control over. And she didn't respond by being able to really hear what you were really saying.
 So what you think it is about this particular time that's making it harder to kind of put away?
 So what is the time frame you need? When do you need to make a final decision about -
 - buying tickets?
 If you had a magic wand, what would you do? Who would be here? What would happen? [10:11]
 That sounds fun. [11:00]
 What are the feelings that are coming up when you think about it?
 So you're trying to process everything that's ever been wrong with your family and everything that will be difficult in the future? [12:19]
 Yeah, it does. This is a hard one.
 Yeah, you can't process everything in your family at once.
 When you...when you say, "The relationship that I have in my family," what exactly are you putting in that bucket?
 But you're doing it.
 But that's not in your control. This isn't all your responsibility.
 I don't see...in this scenario, I don't see what you did wrong.
 You couldn't make your mom see, is that what you're saying? You couldn't make your mom get what you meant -
 - see how it would be better not to have your dad there?
 But she's telling you you're feeling the wrong way?
 She doesn't want to let you to make a mistake, and she really does see it as a mistake in her book.
 Uh-huh.
 She said that, and then she said this piece about the money which seems...somehow seems a little bit like it conflicts with that. It's your decision -
 - but it's going to be hard for me to get there now.
 How is valid that? How is...how much of a burden is the plane ticket for her? Are there other -
 So if you could incur the debt for her, how come she can't come into her savings? [17:33]
 Sounds like she works really hard for what she has.
 Uh-huh.
 These are really hard decisions.
 And it's disappointing that so much gets tied up in this graduation day because it's...you're right. It's a day to celebrate something that you've accomplished. [18:58]
 Every graduation, getting a master's degree, is pretty important.
 Yeah.
 Those are important, too, yes. But you're not doing those things right now.
 This is good practice (Laughter)?
 How come they get to decide whether it's right for you?
 They all feel -
 They all feel this one way -
 - and you feel a different way, so it makes theirs seem more valid sometimes?
 That somehow your feelings are less important because you're a woman and because you're younger? [20:48]
 Is that why you're...is that why you don't want him here is because of his infidelity? [21:16]
 What makes it a choice between you and her? [23:05]
 Talk to him and say what?
 To talk to him about having affairs and making him stop?
 It's really...it's really interesting and sad that your dad's romantic relationships and sexual relationships somehow became a reflection of you. Because really it's a reflection of his relationship with your mother. That's where his loyalty in the marriage was?
 And I can understand why you'd feel angry with him and want him to focus on his family and be there for his family. Because in being outside of the marriage, he was also not taking care of his family, wasn't being a good dad.
 But it seems likes there's a step missing where you know his affairs are really about his marriage, not about whether or not he loves you. And you have no power to control whether or not he steps outside his marriage. And your mom was sort of you know asking you to help, asking you to put some pressure on him not to cheat on her.
 And how could you have possibly have stopped that?
 Yes, it's...that does feel really confusing -
 - because why, you know, why would he do that? Why you are tangled up in this?
 I mean, what is him having a new wife have to do with you?
 Why wouldn't you be upset? I mean, there's a different between you not being able to control it and not thinking that there's a reason for you to be upset. I mean, your mom was getting hurt. Of course, you feel for your mom.
 You're missing out on having a dad present. Of course, you're upset. I don't think his choice to leave his marriage or his...and his choice to be unfaithful in the marriage is not about you. But, of course, you could see...it makes sense that you're upset by it. You're affected by it even if you're not the cause of it.
 (inaudible at 28:20)?
 Right. And those are two different things.
 It's not about you. I don't think a parent's relationship to each other is about the kid.
 But, of course, it affects the child.
 They're your parents.
 And it becomes such a...and it...over time it becomes such a loaded issue because he has been given sort of, I guess, pardon by everybody else. You're the one who hasn't pardoned his behavior. So then he's angry with you that you won't give him this because it absolves -
 - him of responsibility. [29:04]
 Do you think the connection is there?
 You don't fight with anybody every day.
 Uh-huh. [32:06]
 Well, you have a different...you have a different frame of reference that you've prepared -
 - it against because now you see...you see other people having relationships that don't involve this. And you have relationships that don't involve this.
 So, all of a sudden, it, you know, highlighted that this...that is very different.
 It is what it is. You don't have to judge it as wrong or unfair.
 It is what you're experiencing. And so the less contact you have with him, the more you see things in a way that portrays or reveals you know kind of the problems that you have in the relationship.
 You don't have to judge your reaction. Even if your brothers choose to judge your reaction or your mother is judging your reaction, it doesn't mean you have to judge it. You can notice it and understand it without judging it.
 What you see isn't made up out of thin air. Your feelings don't come from nowhere. You're basing it on your real feelings about him.
 It sounds like you don't really trust your feelings, right? That's what you're -
 Why wouldn't your feelings be okay?
 Which piece is in your head?
 So he might not be a horrible person, and I'm sure he has good characteristics. But the things that you're reacting to, it sounds like are his infidelities, the fact that the partner he has chosen now, he is choosing to call by your name.
 And that makes you really uncomfortable.
 And those are not things that you're worried you're making up, are you?
 Trusting your...trusting that your reactions to those things, those are really. Your feelings are real, they are valid.
 And trusting yourself even more.
 You've gotten that message a lot. And I guess that's partly what I mean by trusting yourself, that recognizing what you're feeling and accepting it as an okay thing to feel.
 To me, that's...that's kind of part of trust that your gut is telling you that you're right.
 Rather than listening to these voices that say, "Oh, your gut, what you're feeling, that's not right."
 A lot to sit in...or take in and sit with.
 Well, let's think about - what is your graduation about?
 It's your graduation.
 You worked really hard to get there...get there.
 And you don't want him to share in it.
 No. That's a very judgmental word.
 Has he earned that?
 I guess maybe we need to come up with different words.
 He's your - I guess what does dad mean to you? Maybe that's what we really kind of need to figure out.
 But it sounds like that's not somebody that you want to have come celebrate this success with you?
 Does that feel right for you then? [38:57]
 Does that describe it?
 All right. So what's guy that is not part...a dad is part of your family, right? I mean, when we think about dad, what does dad mean?
 I mean, I think most people would say is that that's somebody who raised you.
 Somebody who is part of your family. But that's not what this - that's not what this man feels like to you.
 How are they different?
 (inaudible at 40:36)?
 Different generations.
 And that's not enough to explain it because there are probably -
 (inaudible at 40:55) generations that changed a diaper -
 - or wiped a snotty nose or went to a baseball game, but -
 (inaudible at 40:57)?
 Those are probably pieces that you can see that also parallel other -
 - ways that he interacted with you?
 I mean, you probably don't remember who actually changed your diapers.
 (inaudible at 41:34) and if you did, it wouldn't matter.
 But you kind of...you combined that with other ways that he wasn't present in your life, and other ways -
 - that he didn't want to connect with you. And so...I mean, who changes the diaper probably makes a bigger deal to the people that are co-parenting together -
 - than the actual parent-child relationship.
 But it's stamped, I mean, it's just kind of one way that you see your brother involving himself differently -
 - or treating his partner differently -
 - then what your dad did. And basically, you're really upset with your dad in other ways that he wasn't there -
 - for your mom and other ways that he wasn't there for you.
 But I mean, but I think you know -
 - you use that as an example that, and I can totally understand, kind of what it meant for you.
 And that's something that you might want to have there to share in your celebration, but he didn't share in other stuff with you. So it makes sense that you don't really feel like sharing this with him.
 And what is second guessing it get you?
 Well, you need to check in with yourself -
 - and see, "Is this what I really feel?" If it is, "Okay, that's how I feel." And there's a difference between checking in with yourself to kind of ascertain what it is you're really feeling, and telling yourself that you're wrong to feel the way that you do. [43:35]
 And I hear a little bit of that second piece coming in because...and partly because it's not how your family wants you to feel. It would be easier if you loved him.
 But I don't think that you feel loving toward him?
 Even if that would be easier, that's not how I feel.
 Yeah. I wish you could have that in your life too.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, but the stress is not missing out with a relationship with your dad anymore.
 It sounds like you have detached from that.
 And kind of accepted that that's a loss for you. And that this stress that they...that your brothers and your mom can't accept that too.
 And really keep pushing you to have this relationship that you don't have.
 It's a step along the way and somehow getting peace with it.
 I'm glad we were able to talk.
 You're very welcome. Do you...so we're scheduled for Monday?
 You still want Monday?
 Okay.
 Of course.
 Yes, as long...24 hours is all I need.
 And then I know we had that weird thing where you want to pay full price today or -
 So how have you been?
 Okay.
 What happened?
 Okay.
 Okay
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, are you going to look for something else do you think?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Is it mostly cold calling?
 Uh-huh
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Oh good.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Good.
 Okay.
 Good.
 Good.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Do you know what triggered it?
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Good.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh and how long have you been out of the restaurant job now, about, has it been weeks?
 So it's a little over a month, okay, and how long have you been working for Aflec?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Okay.
 Huh.
 Okay.
 Yeah but with the medicine then you're able to get to sleep?
 Huh.
 Uh-huh.
 And you're taking the Lunesta?
 And the Trazodone?
 And how many Trazodone are you taking?
 Okay.
 Okay.  So that combination works okay most nights would you say?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Good.
 You'd be a little wired still.
 Okay.
 Huh.
 Yes, yes.
 Yeah.
 Huh.
 And yet sometimes you can get back to sleep?
 Okay.
 Good.
 That's a good rule, yeah.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 That's a good rule.
 Good.  How's your appetite been?
 Do you know how much you weigh?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, it stimulates your appetite.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.  And [PATIENT NAME], how tall are you?
 Okay.  And how's your focus and concentration, like when you were studying for the exams, are you able to focus reasonably well?
 Well, with varying degrees I think.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, yeah, you're finding out what works it sounds like.  Let me turn this off so it won't keep beeping at me.  It sounds like you have a limited amount of time that you can stay focused and concentrate.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay.  And [PATIENT NAME] what about, are you able to get enjoyment out of day to day activities or not?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Right, right, that's the key.
 That's good [PATIENT NAME], we don't want you in there.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Great.
 Uh-huh.
 Good, that sounds excellent.
 It sounds like you're figuring out how to navigate through the stresses of life without allowing it to become overwhelming to you which is crucial.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 That sounds like a good idea, you've got to pace yourself.  Are you having any problems with any of the medications that you're aware of?
 Okay, good.  Okay and are you doing okay with refills on everything, do you know?
 Okay, I just got some so that's good timing.
 Okay, I think I've some back there, let me check on that as well.
 Okay.
 Okay, that sounds fine.
 Let's see here, were you thinking like the week of the 14th, 21st, or 28th, what works for you?
 I do, that afternoon is pretty open.
 We can do 1 o'clock again if you want, is that a good time?  Or we can do it later than that or I have earlier like 10 or 10:30 or 1 or 2 or 3.
 Okay.  Do you want to borrow a pen or pencil?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh
 Right, do you want a card also?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yep, the 28th at 1 o'clock.
 All right, that sounds excellent, so let me get you some Cymbalta and Abilify then
 Let's see, so I'm counting weeks, we're in December now, it's going to be about 8 weeks.
 In about 8 weeks [PATIENT NAME]?
 Okay.  Do you know if you have any Abilify left, do you have a couple weeks worth?
 Okay great
 I have 10's and 5's here.
 Okay.
 And if you get low, call me.  The rep brings my samples, I think he's coming back in this month so.
 We've had a change in reps.
 Well, I'm glad to do it.
 Yeah.
 You say it's straight commission now.
 That's rough to get started, it takes a while.
 Uh-huh.
 Good.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Especially when you're getting started, hopefully, it will get easier with time
 Uh-huh.
 Good.
 It is a good thing.  Well [PATIENT NAME] if you need anything before next time, give me a call.
 We're going to be out of town visiting family that week of Christmas and the first couple days of January.
 So I'll leave the name of the on call doctor on my telephone message if you have any questions.
 Or need anything.
 Okay.
 Oh good.
 Good.
 Well that should be nice
 Good, well drive safely.
 All right [PATIENT NAME].
 Yes, thanks.
 Same to you.
 Yes.  Have a safe trip, we'll see you in January then.
 Bye bye.
 Interview Nine. (long pause) (inaudible at 0:00:48.1)
 Uh-hmm.
 What?
 You've been busy with other things?
 Uh-hmm. Like realizing how big it is and how it might be going forever and ever - at least for a really long time?
 You mean, it occurs to you that you might be working with them year after year -
 And you mean that it might be - the infatuation might last as long as he's around?
 It's really depressing when you think of it - all that time at once.
 Uh-hmm.
 [Shocking for you.] (ph)
 It seems very serious.
 Uh-hmm. And so you begin to worry what that will do to you.
 Uh-hmm. Tired of it and to think of that going on for another long period of time....
 What takes care of the immediate problem?
 Ohhh...
 You mean like you've said all you can think of to say about it.
 So it feels like you've talked about it and said everything there is to say and there's nowhere to go. But you still feel upset by it.
 Uh-hmm.
 Uh-hmm. Or should I think in terms that I can attract men or think in terms of doing it or should I like accept that that won't happen and focus on other things in life. 0:06:50.9
 Okay. (long pause) And that question feels pretty insoluble?
 No, I wasn't thinking that.
 I was trying to see how you felt about that question.
 Well, see now I was just explaining to you that that's what I meant rather than meaning that you had to decide. 0:07:46.1
 Or - or - no, I was just trying to get at the fact that [that it seemed like] (ph) it was confusing to not have an answer to that or...(long pause)
 Uh-hmm. I [did plenty of thinking about that] (ph). The center closes on the 30th and we're moving to a new place, which is going to be over on 53rd street so I could see you here next week. And then you know if you want to transfer over there  -
 Okay. The charge would be the same.
 Uh-huh. Maybe if you had more confidence it wouldn't be so important to you to attract men - so all-important.
 Uh-hmm.
 Fooling around?
 Because you're trying to think of something to say?
 What's that? You don't know if you have anything more to say or nothing is on your mind?
 Well, what's on your mind today? 0:11:12.0
 Uh-hmm. So what's happened today is that you're very much focused on school or things like that.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-hmm. You come out of it and you go into it.
 But were you trying to get into it because you were  -
 [What does that supposed to mean?] (ph) I guess what I'm thinking is I would rather you talk about what you want to talk about rather than feeling like - for my sake or something - like that I'm supposed to now talk about "x'. 0:12:09.5
 What - what happened - you know, what's happening now?
 (chuckles) Does that mean your mind is blank?
 Getting away from him for a while will make it easier but you don't know what that's going to do to you?
 Seeing him again. You don't know then what that will be like coming back to the situation. You're kind of afraid of what that will be like?
 A little afraid that you'll still be caught in those [same] (ph) feelings about him.
 It sounded like (inaudible at 0:13:57.4) it's very discouraging to think, "I'm going to keep seeing this man, keep seeing all these other women, seeing this whole situation for a whole long time."
 It's not like somebody that you met at a party and you stopped seeing him every day.
 It's a lot harder this way.
 But that's what it feels like - with him I guess. The fact that it turned out this way means that you did something wrong. 0:14:55.1
 But it's the fact that not only [are things not going well with him but things aren't going anywhere with anyone else either.] (ph) And that makes you feel like [it couldn't] (ph). Is that right?
 Uh-hmm. And it feels like it means that there is something wrong about you.
 You're not sure though.
 But you feel like - are you saying you feel say...childish?
 [So you're saying, "Will there ever  - ?"] (ph)
 And feeling sad if there won't be?
 Uh-huh. Mixed feelings like in some ways you would rather have the kind of life you have than a lot of married people that you know.
 (inaudible at 0:18:06.9)
 Maybe you're emotionally immature.
 Yeah, it's like somehow you're separate and you don't draw them. You don't pull them. (inaudible at 0:18:33.9)
 [ I'm not sure whether you're saying that it must be you or are you saying that sometimes you feel within yourself that way of not drawing people or things?] (ph)
 Are you saying that - is it at the level of there must be something wrong with me and then saying, "what is that?" Or is it partly at the level of feeling sometimes like sitting somewhere and feeling right now I'm acting like I'm not attracting someone  -
 Uh-huh. What about specifically when you're with someone? Do you feel that way? 0:19:32.5
 Well how - yeah - well how do you feel? I was trying to get  -
 Yeah.
 Well, take an example. Just think of an instance. 0:20:20.9
 I mean with a man.
 Uh-hmmm or just one - well try to get specific yeah.
 Well go ahead with what you were going to say.
 Uh-huh. You're sure that's what you're usually thinking.
 That while you're talking to him in the back of your mind it's like, "How is he reacting to me?", "What does he think of what I'm saying?"
 So part of the time when you're talking about teaching or work then you're thinking about whatever it is you're asking him, I guess you said.
 And when you're talking to him socially you were thinking about, "How does he feel about me?" 0:23:10.2
 Then what are you thinking? Then how is it?
 Uh-hmm. Wait, wait, wait  - now -
 Wait - wait a minute  -
 Uh-hmm, but sometimes just the fact that he would take other women out and not you and that makes you feel like that means that there's something inferior or wrong about you. Is that right?
 Uh-hmm. [I think you're feeling less than other people you know.] (ph)
 Do you want - what specifically? What are you afraid that you do? 0:25:37.6
 [Well so you walk too fast  - ] (ph)
 (inaudible at 0:25:54.3)
 Uh-hmm. You're afraid that your inexperience in terms of having a lot of relationships with men?
 But somehow you feel like  -
 Uh-huh. But what I'm not clear about is, it sounds like you have that fear. Like what's that pinned to? Like now I heard you say a couple of things. 0:26:29.5
 Uh-huh....so....
 Wait - let's stick with that - you move around, you don't sit quietly  -
 Well, then what do you mean you move around too much?
 I see.
 Wait; is that any kind of smiling you're talking about now?
 Ummm, that you're transparent.
 Uh-huh, you feel it shows...
 And you feel very exposed. Like wherever you go  -
 Uh-hmm, uh-hmm. "She's just a little girl."
 So it's not only feeling that way, but feeling like it sticks out all over wherever you go.
 What do you mean?
 Like a doll you mean?
 Is cultured.
 Someone you keep your distance with you mean.
 Someone who has a different set of morals. (inaudible at 0:29:17.9)
 It feels unfair because it doesn't feel like really that's who you are.
 But you don't feel like you are that way. Is that right? But like  -
 So partly you do feel unsophisticated.
 Nothing of substance do you mean? 0:31:38.3
 And then when you're with them you feel that there's nothing that you're missing.
 But wait now - I don't get this thing about sophistication. It sounds like you don't feel sophisticated in ways or there feels like there's something that you don't know about that sophisticated people must know that you don't know?
 Some language? What do you mean?
 You mean you don't have it.
 Feeling like you can't talk swinger talk.
 But you can.
 So now wait  -
 Uh-hmm.
 You told me how bad that made you feel.
 Yeah. It's beginning to sound to me like you don't really know what the sophistication is - like what it's composed of. Like if you said to yourself, "All right. I'm going to be sophisticated." Would you know how to do that? What to learn?
 But that's to you a lot of what sophistication means.
 Is experience with men. Uh-huh, uh-huh. Well...
 Like knowing how to choose - you're talking about knowing how to choose clothes and music and [kind of like that?] (ph)
 And what does that mean?
 Being at ease?
 That they are more independent?
 Meaning that if somebody tried to manipulate them they - well would somehow resist that.
 Something like being poised?
 And cool maybe - part of it?
 And like acting as if you could take him or leave him. Is that part of it too?
 Well, okay. Let me shoot something out as an example. Now you're talking saying that your movements are jerky.
 Now - and you're saying, "And that shows that I'm inexperienced." Now there must be something that stopped you from just [up in grade school or just saying] (ph) "okay, I don't want to look like that anymore. I'm going to change the way I move."] (ph) What is that? 0:38:14.6
 Well, why you - well, you told me that you feel you move too fast, right, and that that looks childish?
 That that looks inexperienced. Now you couldn't say to yourself, "Okay, I will start moving more slowly and then I'll look more experienced." But why don't you do that, is what I'm saying? I'm not saying you should. I'm trying to see -
 You are trying to do it.
 So if there - partly under your control then?
 So the whole - well partly then you're saying the fact of looking inexperienced and being transparent and looking unsophisticated is something I can do something about. Maybe not entirely  -
 - but something that you are working on.
 That doesn't seem to do what?
 Men more than women?
 So in some ways it doesn't seem so admirable to be sophisticated?
 Men don't  -
 That men want sophisticated women?
 Uh-hmm. [It's kind of the difference between it being outside superficially than a more genuine knowledge about things.] (ph)
 Knowledge about the world.
 But it comes from inside [even if it's just that he moves badly.] (ph) And that there's something that you feel don't appreciate the kind of sophistication that you really value.
 And that makes you angry at them?
 What?
 It feels like more their problem.
 It feels selfish I think you're saying  -
 Whenever you have thought something was your fault and then to think it's their fault.
 Is that what feels selfish - for their problems?
 Men's taste.
 I don't get the connection between it being selfish and being rough on yourself.
 Whenever you see a fault you mean it's - you've always ought to look at it as a fault within you whenever something doesn't go right?
 Uh-huh. Like whenever something doesn't go successfully that you ought to see that as your fault or  -
 Uh-huh. And that's how this feels. It's like, "No men are attracted to me."
 Uh-huh. But it sounds too like you're not only looking at yourself and saying, "What is this?" but you're also looking at yourself and blaming yourself, which is different.
 Well wait now - that's okay -
 Okay well it sounded like let's see - it sounded like that the fault is that they see you as childish. Now you were pointing out what the things were - some of them that made you seem childish. It sounded like you felt you could change some of them.
 But now you're saying it feels sometimes like you can't do anything.
 Well like what?
 Yeah, it seems that a lot of the ways you feel are feeling like what's wrong with me as you see it. It's like not really a specific thing somehow but some general thing you give off.
 And how is it going?
 Well how does it feel to be doing that?
 Uh-huh. But you mean there are ways you can do it in which you don't feel phony?
 Trying to act differently.
 Uh-huh. It's kind of learning where certain kinds of humor go and where they don't.
 But it's a problem to sort out when you can say what.
 What were you trying to do? Get out of that category?
 Uh-huh. But it was a way of not denying that you were cultured but somehow trying to get the conversation off on a different foot.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. So what you're trying to do now - it sounds like - is have different kinds of conversations with people not just about culture. You know, get them out of thinking you're just "cultured".
 Uh-hmm. Kid around and have casual  -
 Uh-hmm. That attitude annoys you.
 And you don't like talking about it.
 It's an every day thing to you.
 So it sounds like what you're doing is trying to get people to expand the way they think of you. You know be able to talk with you about culture or other things.
 Uh-hmm. You're not somebody who's off afar just who runs from concert to concert.
 Right. Right. (long pause)
 Exclusive and what?
 Uh-hmm. You don't think that's really true that you have to choose one of those lives or the other.
 (chuckles) But you might. (chuckles) Well we're going to have to stop.
 Now next week I will still be here.
 Now the week after, I'll probably be over at the other place but I can tell you where that is and so forth.
 Now is next Wednesday, same time, okay with you?
 You won't?
 Ummm...let me just think about that. No I can't see you earlier.
 Umm, well I tell you what (inaudible at 0:56:06.0) If you could come on Tuesday, you know, that would be better for me. Could you do that?
 Okay. Three-thirty?
 Okay. Now if the receptionist isn't there downstairs, come on up.
 Okay.
 Hmm.
 Oh, sorry.
 Uh huh.
 I see.
 This was somebody internal to that store?
 Gotcha.
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Oh.
 There are more people that work there?
 Oh really?
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Gotcha.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm. [00:03:25]
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 I see.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Are you getting much emotional support at all?
 Mm hmm. [00:10:24]
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm.
 I understand how you like...how you could be too practical to go out for a nice dinner when there are bills unpaid.
 I guess I don't understand how you could be too practical to let her help bail you out.
 Oh, okay.
 Mm hmm. Yeah.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 I see.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Because you're not helping them...
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Mm hmm.
 Oh.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah. [00:23:57]
 Yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Not a hippie.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 I guess I'm thinking about (pause) the way that it's so difficult...so kind of against the grain for you to lean on people. Like even your own parents or, as you told me in here, that it takes in here a lot of effort to kind of, uh, lean on me by putting your troubles out there in a way that you generally don't do.
 Yeah.
 I sort of have a feeling of two currents in it. One to do with your not feeling deserving? And the other (pause) um, (pause) to do with the way I think it also makes you feel weak or incapable? I mean I know those are two different things.
 But my impression is they're both there. Like it's both a sign of, ya know, whatever lack of independence you feel you haven't—or should have—and so it's sort of like stigmatizing that way, and also I mean you don't feel worthy of.
 So I think some of that has to do with your not sort of, um, working as much and being as much a productive member of society as you imagined you would be.
 As you should be. Um, but I don't think that's the whole story, because I think...
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I mean I think, ya know, even if you have a 50-hour-a-week job...
 I know.
 I know. That, uh, it still wouldn't be easy, but I think that exacerbates it that you don't.
 Yeah.
 Right, and that would help probably more with the sort of inadequacy part, ya know like...
 ...you're not good enough to deserve it, but I think you'd still feel, yeah (pause).
 Mm. [00:33:53]
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm.
 Okay (inaudible at 00:37:41) is it to do with (pause) the sort of your vulnerability to what other people think of you and the difficulties of kind of knowing and influencing that.
 Uh huh.
 Mm hmm.
 I think so, yeah.
 Where you're confronted with a, like a certain situation like that where you just don't know what the fuck is going on.
 What happened?
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. And the (inaudible at 00:40:14) are generally easier to deal with in this way.
 Moving forward, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 I see.
 We need to stop for now.
 Um, 11 on Thursday.
 No, I don't know anything about cats... 
 ...except that I know that it's bad when they start pissing somewhere because [one of them pissed on that] (ph)... [overlapping voices at 0:00:28.0]
 No?
 [inaudible]... 
 Oh.
 I don't think you need to, yeah, I don't think you need a cat who will... [inaudible at 0:00:45.8] ...I think you need to go to somebody who knows more about behavior modification, and it seems to me... 
 ...like what you did was probably take away like the newspapers too fast without substituting something else at the same... 
 ...time and you just need to figure out a way to successively change the thing.
 So probably some of these things (ph) [that you've can get a little bit of course of in college.] (ph)
 Oh, you did... [inaudible] You get the point, you know what I mean?
 You know when they change the light from red to green and... 
 ...if you do it slowly enough you can keep the thing packing (ph) to it even though it's completely different... [overlapping voices at 0:01:19.5]
 Now though, but if you put back newspapers he'd probably piss on newspapers all the time and so... [overlapping voices at 0:01:31.5]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. (both chuckling)
 Yeah.
 Refuse, what do you mean?
 Like what happened?
 What do you say to yourself then?
 Just "this is too early", not anything about why it's too early or... [overlapping voices]
 M-hmm.
 Well you said there all kinds of things you wanted to do but you find it isn't true?
 Okay (ph).
 Did you cry in front of him though?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 What is that going to give you; I mean if you're conflicted in your kind of feelings?
 So if you're not telling yourself, "Yes, you have to get up that's bullshit." and he'll tell you?
 M-hmm. [overlapping voices at 0:05:09.5]... 
 Oh, I see like he if prepares and then you're a wreck at that thing, this kind of thing? You mean it's embarrassing to be around someone who can do it and not be doing it?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 See that's kind of effective if you think it's for him and if you don't think it's really there then in a sense it's from yourself, if you're saying the words then to yourself anyway.
 So you trick yourself into thinking that you mean... 
 ...and then you believe it and you don't believe it when it comes from yourself, when those judgments come from yourself, like this is self indulgence or you shouldn't be offended (ph) [if you don't see me.] [0:06:28.2]
 Yeah.
 M-hmm. Well, so what are you asking, for a solution or for knowing why this happens or what?
 Yeah, get some... [inaudible at 0:06:57.8]
 What?
 Oh.
 Okay, wait, I want to tell you something.
 I'm trying to think about it Jessie, because one thing is that I can think of some specific things... 
 ...that you might be able to train yourself to do that would help. But I also have been thinking about you that, that there's a more general issue about you getting things done.
 M-hmm.
 So it's not really true that you want to do all those things... 
 ...that you have on your list?
 Why, what is it you felt then?
 It's much better to have a plan but if you never do them it really doesn't... [overlapping voices at 0:08:09.4]
 M-hmm.
 [inaudible]...it's not on your list for four years from now, so... 
 ...you're saying that you aren't going to honor that [if it's not really an experience,] (ph) right?
 Why have it on the list... [overlapping voices at 0:08:31.6]
 You aren't going to honor it on the list for now? [silence from 0:08:36.3 to 0:08:50.8]
 That would be nice.
 Why would it be nice? That's the other, the main question that I have is, well that that paper is indicative or it isn't, do you want to do it?
 Well I think if anything you want the intrinsic process of doing it because everyone believes that we shoot after these goals... 
 ...and for them. [inaudible]... (both chuckling) But I think it's only an intrinsic problem and that you're okay now with it but I'm not sure you want the outcome. Do you know why? [0:09:34.8]
 M-hmm.
 And if you'll do it...now that that outcome?
 And it's like an unavoidable thought that is the act of doing?
 Which leads me to think that the thing to think about is that I mean?
 You think you're going to do a paper that you think is shitty... 
 ...and it won't, won't agree with you... 
 ...[when you're finished doing it?] (ph)
 I mean and then what will happen, what are the particulars of that, I mean [if that happened?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 Meaning?
 But that's a way to now say - you shouldn't be saying you're counting on it, you should be saying that you wish... 
 ...that it would be good... 
 ...if you really think that it's that kind of... 
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm. So I guess you're saying that it's that getting back [or it won't pay me back to do, is when you can't think to do and feeling like you can't?] (ph)
 I mean what would that mean, I mean do you have any sense of, that you could do anything else or would that be the - that would be really serious I know because we've talked about it many times?
 [inaudible at 0:12:11.0]... 
 M-hmm.
 What's this guessing, can you tell me that?
 I think I know what you mean, you don't deduce, you aren't obviously... [overlapping voices at 0:13:29.5]
 Right.
 So that can come up but you don't know whether it's going to come through or not?
 Right... 
 But now wait, do you mean that you're tricking people and you really don't know what you're talking about... [overlapping voices]
 In fact you don't believe any of it, you don't, you think it's a matter of form; you're saying form but... 
 ...many people think that there's... 
 You mean that you mean... 
 ...you mind doing that?
 Then why do you do it?
 It's seem like why, I think why that...a person would do it... 
 ...is that you want the goal even if you don't deserve it, even if you don't think you... 
 ...deserve it?
 And that is liking for people to think that you're smart and like nobody will think you're smart... 
 ...then anymore if you are guessing? 
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, you're going to get found out?
 And it's on something that you, that you in a way think you should've gotten found out on?
 Well is it important to you to like not get found out at this time?
 So this time you feel you want to deserve it with... 
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You expect yourself to do that?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah but now you're talking as if he got his thing by chance, not by skill, as if it came to him out of the kind of intuition that you say you yourself have. It sounds to me like it didn't come out of that at all. [overlapping voices at 0:17:30.0]... 
 Okay, yeah, now how does a person get that? Is that intelligence or is that experience as those are the combinations, but it sure doesn't sound... [overlapping voices]
 Uh-huh, like you?
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 And it occurs to you that there's some kind of, [maybe a] (ph) difference between you and him that means that you're never going to do that particular thing (ph)?
 Right, okay, well that could be.
 Like doubting what's required of you? A negative (ph) intelligence?
 M-hmm.
 [inaudible]...I never remember much of any of his... [overlapping voices]
 Well then you have a [negative lapse memory] (ph), what does that mean? I mean that could mean different things; it could mean that you have to practice more.
 I mean it's great when people can do it that way.
 But if you're saying... 
 Okay, so that would be a problem and [that could be responsible] (ph)... [overlapping voices]
 That's where you're irresponsible (ph).
 You aren't responsible for having less neurons than he... 
 ...or less intelligence (ph).
 Which are?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 With him you're going into the same thing though you think?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well like, I mean you, is what you mean that last, like first quarter last year... 
 ...you provide (ph) a situation with such that it had only two factors and that is why you could do the things that you had to do... 
 ...because all arrangements pushed toward that, right... 
 ...well all arrangements push toward your studying a lot, now all arrangements do not push toward your studying a lot, therefore you cannot study a lot, right?
 Okay. So there's not any kind of sense, just first of all, that you really did anything about that; the arrangements were right and so you studied or maybe your depression, you took advantage of the depression which you felt maybe kind of... [overlapping voices at 0:22:26.4]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. Well something about... [overlapping voices]
 Right.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 Okay. See the trend of your argument appears to be that you, that in circumstance it hasn't changed and that would mean to me that the circumstance, of which could be, sounds to me like the circumstance that would have to change if you want those two goals is Murphy. I mean if there are three factors in your life where before there were two and you think that there is one less then it's this.
 Unless you can figure out some other ways of dealing, it's kind of a matter just of priority... 
 ...priorities, so what then are you really saying, that Murphy has caused you not to be studying, which is something you want to do, and if that's so... 
 ...what are you going to do about it?
 But in addition it sounds to me from the way you were talking before, and that we kind of got lost along the way, is that it isn't just [circumstance involving Murphy?]
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well we can take things one at a time... 
 ...that would be a good thing to try.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. Now why haven't you been willing to do that before?
 M-hmm. You've been holding onto the idea... 
 ...that is that you could do all of this kind of studying and you'd set your own time... 
 ...with everything... 
 ...despite a lot of evidence [to the contrary?] (ph) [0:25:48.5]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well convince him (ph).
 Well but it is a big thing to you apparently when you've... [overlapping voices at 0:26:53.4]
 ...else you could do?
 [inaudible at 0:27:02.8]... 
 Right and now I think I don't know what to take for an unmovable within your situation... 
 ...in a way that you do have to work around and I realize that in saying, "well you have to change your move (ph) schedule and start moving day by day" and starting to talk like that, I was granting, I mean you become... 
 Do you want it to be an immovable, [is what you said?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 What do you think?
 M-hmm.
 Well right now are you going to grant or not grant that this is actually the case, I mean you seem to be saying both things at once?
 Do you believe it?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 And you're on a regular clock, you're on his clock, right? You're getting up at the same time and... 
 Right.
 So it is really phenomenal?
 Yeah. [inaudible at 0:29:36.9]... 
 But it actually is a phenomenon in some people when they sleep, by the way, that some guy who was just studying sleep found that people that are married sleep, within the lab when they sleep separately go to sleep less well or some shit like this, but they don't even know what less really means... 
 ...in sleep with research done on that with controlling human...but that's still an issue, right?
 What I would think it made you change, that it would change your mind is that he bitches so much and you can't stand it?
 So you've decided (ph) not to, not to be bother by this particular bitching... [overlapping voices at 0:30:24.0]
 [inaudible]... 
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You mean so if you stay up... 
 ...if you stay up when Murphy is in bed, so why do you have to stay up if it isn't the way that you want to be staying up anyway?
 Now what about those objections?
 And what do you think?
 Okay, so you say, "It wasn't meant to bother you." You say, "No."
 It still happens? I mean why is there... 
 M-hmm. And why do you do it, again?
 I hear you.
 So do you really think now, do you think that makes a big difference if he, that it could be that you really feel guilty about your imposing your view, I mean and your schedule on him?
 M-hmm. [overlapping voices at 0:32:49.7]... 
 Okay. [overlapping voices]... 
 M-hmm.
 And that makes, it makes a difference whether you do feel that he's in a way very annoyed (ph) in terms of what you [just think that you need to do.] (ph)
 But it's only for a social clock?
 And you're both on this bizarre social clock, just when you've learned that everyone is all homing status and adjusting in equilibrium and everything is the same.
 Right, bat each other over the head and you're too picky about it.
 But, okay, he couldn't get... [overlapping voices at 0:33:49.2] ... 
 And you think what about that?
 It's incorrect for him to blame you?
 Why is it that he... 
 Now you're saying that he is dependent on you.
 M-hmm. M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm and if you're better at doing things late at night and in response to the situation, which is one where you're going to be blamed unfairly for something.
 You're giving up the time when you can work best. [0:35:08.6]
 ...[and not at, now at] (ph) this time in your life in exchange for another time when you need to work... 
 ...I mean.
 [inaudible at 0:35:27.7]... 
 M-hmm.
 Well wait a minute, what's immovable then, I mean?
 Well just... 
 Well I mean... 
 See but you know what I mean, it might be that he's not movable but you don't want to go along with it; for instance, why should a person go along with something that they consider being blamed incorrectly, and I'm giving your (ph) own instinct as an example, an example but because this is not a very good example but the truth.
 It is almost irrelevant but right (ph). You weren't here during the last, [with him] (ph) I don't think?
 But, um, people said, "Well," I mean they're here, "to get screwed out of life and limb." Because they knew when you went into the building that this was what was going happen to you and people at least then arrived at. Well I don't know, I mean if you know you're going to get a shock for doing something it doesn't mean you shouldn't do it, I mean they should be shooting you.
 But loosely there is an analogy between these situations... 
 ...in the sense that well like - or a better analogy is he's doing it as a kind of punishment to get you to do the courses that you should avoid getting shot if they're really going to do it, but to the charges that were made, like... [inaudible at 0:37:09.4] ...and people like that about what we were doing with human birdfeeders (ph) like, um, not just giving birdfeed but to the country and... [inaudible] ...and you're not to use any [real evidence seen] (ph) in all this. And, um, so it is they blamed us for certain things... 
 ...or they said we were doing certain things and that he shouldn't be influenced by these things and telling... [inaudible at 0:37:31.4]
 Right?
 So what do you think with him, are you thinking... 
 ...it's always that you blame us for these things, but... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure, right.
 M-hmm.
 So there is a possibility, this is not going to be true in every case and particularly when you love somebody, I mean [it's the little things like a poem] (ph), um, with caring and kisses, but it's still an option for it, to decide that your actions shouldn't be controlled if the person who is making you address it incorrectly, is making you address the issue... 
 ...but are incorrect.
 And well of course and you also have to consider the consequences.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well it seems to me like what you have to think about is, one, if you can move both... 
 ...which of course is to, for him to change his mind and not keep on constructing this the way he does?
 Um, and how the problem or I guess there are problems in how you speak about it... 
 ...with him also, which you might want to talk about, um, but the other problems are if he is immovable what do you do then? I mean do you move or do you work around that or do you try, like you said that you tend to really ignore that, and what are the consequences you get into when you're dealing with Murphy?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 An issue of the time perspective in which the inequalities... 
 ...aren't and then a piece of?
 M-hmm. Well... 
 M-hmm.
 Well that's the kind of empirical question that can't be answered then?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, and then what, then you have to decide whether he's right or not... 
 ...[and also talk to him about it?] (ph)
 Right.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 So that's the other aspect of this if you say it's one thing that just, your mood style in scheduling stuff, it seems to me like you've been to Murphy... 
 ...an incremental ... 
 ...and that's the kind of circumstance then that you were finding before... 
 ...but, um, so that's really not the same, so it's not anywhere near, I mean you're holding... 
 ...with all this, um, there are always going to achieve new levels and have to change peoples' views. I mean or the ways... 
 ...in which he... [inaudible at 0:43:33.8]
 One of the drawbacks here are then saying that there are ways in which you know that it's set and it said more to me right now.
 Personally.
 [I know.] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 But I think, okay, there are things in which, where you know that you aren't going to come through... 
 ...you know do them, but there are also a lot of things where you keep trying to catch yourself that you are going to come through and you don't. There are a lot of things that you don't really treat, like chemistry... 
 ...when maybe you should be or else change your ways, don't you think? [0:44:30.6]
 And those seem like the, um, things you should be talking about.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 But that's these three papers... 
 ...but that's just the one paper which is the main one you talked about, um, again, just three to rewrite up some of the main issues, whether you, it's that you really expect the outcome isn't going to be good and you think you deserve a bad outcome and yet you want, I mean the things that would come from a good outcome, and that's just not a point or something that's going to happen with that, [you don't think?] (ph)
 Well that's true but I meant something material (ph) from that, um, which seems, which has to do with these kind of styled marriage and intuition that you've seemed to have answers (ph) and that it's the style that makes you very insecure at all times... 
 ...as well as it ought to. (both chuckling)
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Okay, but this seems like a, I mean I guess it is difficult but it seems like a simple need, question of need.
 Um, in that sense it seems like, um, and it may not be simple to find them but you know what it is that you need and, um... 
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah, except that you to drink it again, you have to figure out how to do it, supposedly you're supposed to be a psychology lecture in this space and time.
 Like horrible (ph)... [inaudible] ...the right thing, is that the kind of level that you're talking about?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Well, hmm.
 [I think you know it is.] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 Okay, it may be in the nature of things that you aren't going to find that intermediate text... 
 ...and it prompted these thoughts (ph)... 
 ...that it's wrong for you to assume that, it's just, um, what will you do then but still be with... [overlapping voices at 0:50:59.4]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You'd think.
 M-hmm. But you see we're talking about something very fundamental in this, that maybe getting lost in the... [inaudible at 0:52:07.5] ...which is a way of dealing that's going to mean that you deserve the rewards you're getting and that means a very big transformation from the way of dealing, of...making people think that you deserve them.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 M-hmm.
 Well what do you mean you just muddle around?
 Like well how come you don't get [finished with what you're studying?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 That's what I mean, you don't really, aren't really kind of reconciled to having to... 
 ...feeling that you want to have that solid basis?
 And it would be in, I guess, the things that you'd rather have if you could have just this one thing or so it seems?
 Um, and then like how that changes things is, uh, but it's not as if that's not a very good thing along with... [inaudible] [0:53:51.8]
 And to also thinking about... 
 Yeah.
 Right, but why are you [wanting it to lap?] (ph)
 M-hmm, and it would be nicer if you could do it another way... 
 ...because... [inaudible] ...to really find out. It wouldn't be, and say what would it be like if you could do it that other way... 
 ...in the sense it would always leave you feeling guilty and that you're going to be found out?
 It means that you, and you don't really believe...and it's just that you're lucky [and with effort you pass this again...] (ph)
 ...you think with this? Also the other thing that I'd think, uh, I think there's another thing that stands in your way, um, which is that you want to be like the guy with an answer and the idea that you're going to have to read the whole fucking textbook and read it over... 
 ...and over again and not understand it in terms of, until you've read it six times... [inaudible at 0:55:00.7]
 ...and it depresses you enough that you aren't willing to see that that's how it may have to be?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 And that it's cooler for it to happen and then so you so don't... [overlapping voices at 0:55:40.0]
 M-hmm, and that includes never getting started.
 Hmm, I see, oh, not the thing about having a really good time but having to admit that [you really haven't even then?] (ph)
 Like you've really gotten going in a way that's kind of cheap?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Which it really, which is true, you know like... 
 ...you've really screwed yourself.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 I think there you aren't really... [inaudible at 0:57:31.7] ...I mean with anything?
 M-hmm, yeah.
 Realizing it?
 M-hmm.
 To think that maybe that's what you need?
 M-hmm. It doesn't sound to me like you've described the situation where there's any kind of basic lack of self discipline to think that it wouldn't be without fearing... 
 ...that it's just not happening even if I would be able to control it.
 To me like you've described it, like you yourself described the situation you were in, um, you can quite bring yourself to the part of that where you could get what it would mean to get this finish.
 That every time that you have to examine it like that, that means that you're not going to be able to do it like this.
 M-hmm. [1:00:08.9]
 [inaudible]... 
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, you've always kind of bullshitted your way through.
 So then you're thinking of it as being... 
 ...because you were lucky those other times you think?
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. Well now what do you think - but what you seem to do about that then is to say, "that's how it is" as if the, like being able to try and become those things is worse than just making yourself really wrong (ph)?
 [Willing or not?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Do you mean that you expect yourself to be better than people who can really do it?
 I think you expect yourself to do good by a need (ph) that you can't use [and then acknowledge it?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. You want to protect yourself, why's that?
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 Right, thinking that if it works out that you kind of, [it would be more things, things to work at especially that] (ph)... 
 ...and you have to find out.
 M-hmm. That you have from, from this if you need something that it's too lapsed (ph) to use?
 M-hmm.
 [Oh, sure.] (ph)
 Right but it's not a man (ph) and it's kind of a marriage of, um, fearing (ph) with it and you know you have to, you can't redefine it this way, the way that you'd really want to be?
 You think it's mainly that...if this means that you could have it, the things you really want to be... 
 ...and...that isn't really standing up and it means they're not possible?
 Yeah.
 Side 1, track 2; side 1, track 2. Interview number two; interview number two.
 Feeling the need is the uncomfortableness around feeling the need and to kind of think about it - 
  - and figure something out?
 Yeah like it... you're uncomfortable with the idea that it feels kind of... you have to redo some ambiguity or something. You need to have to come up with some kind of map or plan or.... [0:01:00.3]
 You feeling anxious now?
 Okay. Let me - before you start with that - let me ask you, do you feel... well, what do you think it would feel like if you came in at a loss?
 (Crosstalk)
 Until something hit you.
 Important to you, but I guess that feels pretty... an anxious situation. Kind of like you feel like, I guess, and part of this is like, it's you've been here once, you don't like feel ease and need some kind of... something to hold onto, that's a something to talk about.
 And what were they like?
 Mm-hmm. Not not every one, I mean....
 No. You're not a preparation about things to talk about substantive things so much as a how that a... so much as that hour sounded. But in like things that I did.
 Did you understand what I - 
  - it may not be clear to you, but....
 But the point is about as far as things to talk about in this... I was telling you last time, about what you talk about, what's most important to you and that's something that you - 
  - it's important for you to know that and me not to tell you what's important for you.
 It's in my, it's in here but I don't know if that's what you mean. [0:04:02.2]
 Oh.
 Yeah, that's something we here don't tend to kind of analysis. I don't know if it's from your background in teaching or where it, it is kind of more analytically oriented we [see here] (ph), (inaudible at 0:04:41.4) we're not here, so just, I guess what you're asking is that can I give you some insightful thing.
 Oh, I, I, yeah - 
  - I process them and I - 
  - process them as you say and I think I did say quite a few things for you last week.
 Is this from the group of girls you work without and (crosstalk) [0:05:49.1] - 
 Did you take her with? I'm not sure I got one (inaudible at 0:06:48.8) than that. Her parents were up for - 
  - (crosstalk)
 There's someone there.
 Yeah, and feeling it.
 Really - 
 Yeah, were you someone there kind of who was really there to be counted on. Like when you say you wanted to hug her, but like that was really how real...
 Yeah, is the concern there, do I really care for her or do I really feel I should care for her?
 But the difference is kind of coming naturally or something because of an obligation, a duty.
 You should care.
 Yeah, what you were saying last time you were talking about like, can I really care, can I really love.
 Yeah, it's kind of like I really sense, like when... you kind of stand back from yourself and look at what you're feeling, you question... you really question it's basis and it makes you real confused because you don't know what's real. You don't know if that's you or if you can care for people in general or are you doing it for some other reason because you feel you should.
 Yeah, were you putting something over on yourself.
 Because you wanted - 
 Yeah, it's like you don't know really know what's real in you and if I'm... who you are, whether that's you or something else.
 Yeah, I understand (ph) what, what you're saying is like have I chosen those things from really inside what's right for myself or am I choosing because I think well I should reject that or I should want something else. And again it's the question of what, who am I, what do I want type inside myself and what's really me as opposed to things that aren't really me but I feel I should be or should not be.
 But, like that must, I mean I imagine like kind of... that kind of questions must be incredibly disorienting. Because it, it l... it's like very fundamental in a way.
 Yeah, confusing 
 Yeah and a kind of (inaudible at 0:14:20.0) but I also sense that it can really make you feel down when you realize - 
  - you don't have that sense of yourself.
 It's like you can say well I'm going through some, some hard times, some confusing times and they're depressing, but that's natural but it maybe can help for a while, but it doesn't take away some of the confusion and depression that - 
 When you say how does it strike me, I'm not sure I know what you mean.
 Mm-hmm.
 No, no - 
 No, no, I'm just, I'm trying to understand what you mean by how does - 
 I really understand what you're saying about... what I think about that, that's like what you're saying sounds very big. Do you know what I mean? I mean it's very fundamental and like as you said it, I was kind of thinking you really do feel very, very unsure of yourself and like there must be a lot of feelings in there about that, which I don't know about, but you know you did say depression and [we'll have to be seeing more about that in] (ph) confusion. That was what was hitting me as you said it. It's like, if I felt that way about myself then I could really see feeling pretty lost at times.
 Yeah, do you feel like... you when you kind of s... might just step to look at it you may be going through the motions of living?
 Without really being yourself in (inaudible at 0:17:30.1) and how are you.
 Yeah, but that's what you're also questioning, whether you really are alive, it's like it's hard when I said that thing about going through the motions of life, you kind of wheeled back in a way. [0:18:27.8]
 But that sounded very scary, but also you are asking that, too, like am I being mechanical, am I, feelings things as in (ph) like with these things I mean not having meaningful experiences come from myself.
 Yeah, that would kind of like really feel devastating for you if you felt that way about yourself.
 I kind of sense you're feeling some kind of upset thought, like it.
 Why don't, why don't we go back a second, just a second if we had to look like when I saw you kind of feeling upset at the thought like that you might be mechanical, what was, what was that like?
 That's - 
 You know, like when people tell you you're cold, it's kind of like (inaudible at 0:20:10.5), it's really impossible to accept because it really kind of really strikes you deep.
 Right, how sensitive are you really?
 Yeah, and I sense that it's kind of like when people say you're cold or insensitive it's like it... you try to rationalize, but there's a place where it really kind of feels like it hits true inside yourself and causes you kind of feel really upset like maybe that is true. [0:21:05.6]
 Can you say more (inaudible at 0:21:23.8)?
 And that person - 
  - yeah, that pers... but that then that person may be you.
 Scared?
 Feeling kind of, just, is there a sense of that's, oh I'm really worthless and kind of (crosstalk) - 
 (Crosstalk)
 (Crosstalk)
 You're afraid and you don't want that to happen. [0:22:58.5]
 You feel like, no like it's bad to be depressed because it's hard on other people? You're not likeable that way?
 I have a sense it's not really from anything specific you're saying but like as you're kind of talking about these things, and the doubts and you're a cold person and my concern (ph) (inaudible at 0:24:34.3) very upsetting talking about it.
 Talking about it.
 Yeah, that was kind of my sense like, I don't know, I noticed like when you start to talk about like feeling like you're a cold person, what you did was you made it, you changed like from talking I to -  [0:25:09.8]
  - somebody else. It's like you wanted or, it was, felt upsetting and you kind of wanted to push it away from yourself.
 How does, how does that hit you?
 But there you were talking about (crosstalk) - 
 It's kind of like when you talk, it takes away, jump away from the feelings that are inside you. It's kind of the feeling now, too, I guess what you're saying.
 Yeah, but it's like you really feel like you can't express and kind of be at one with your feelings and share that with someone.
 It's like you really feel like you can't be at one with what you're feeling and express it and re... and share that with someone.
 I'm not sure about that, but it's kind of like, I'm not sure what the sequence is. Like you're saying well if I talk about it, it removes it and I'm saying well you just don't talk about it, like you're, I don't know if it's afraid to talk about it or afraid to share, don't know how to do it. Fear that you won't be able to do it.
 You don't know, yeah. But what does it, what does it feel like when you feel like take... like you feel like you're crying on the inside, but can't express it? I mean, what goes through your mind, what happens? Like when you were getting, or like when you said you were feeling upset but it was kind of like you... it didn't kind of come and your words kind of seemed put (ph) away from it. I know that's real difficult.
 Yeah, that would be inappropriate, like people can respond to me like they did in college. And what may be... you may be saying is while I'm not living quite that way, but there, there's some similarity like acting a way so that people like me. I don't know if they'll be there and kind of pick me up if I'm upset. I don't know what they'll think about me. I'm scared of that.
 Yes, but - 
 But you're leaving yourself off in a corner and that's the net effect of all that. You know you're leaving... you're leaving your hugs inside yourself, you're leaving your tears inside yourself. Which are you, you are those things. It's like what you were saying last time, when I feel things, I really feel alive and express them. Not going through motions.
 Yeah, that's a whole lot confusing things (crosstalk) - [0:30:54.8]
 Yeah, like trying to take some risks like if I feel like crying, I feel like crying.
 And do it, yeah.
 But that's a different... that's something different than those two things.
 Yeah, but what you're saying - 
  - when people think I'm insensitive or cold because they also don't see the emotional side of you. And (crosstalk) - 
 Yeah, it's like for good things it's okay, but that's kind of like being able to.. well respond to people that I guess when they feel joy, just (ph) like you do have sad feelings inside yourself, but you really don't know what to do with them at this point (inaudible at 0:34:21.9).
 (Inaudible)
 (Crosstalk) kind of be left out in the cold like that if you (crosstalk) [0:34:56.5]
 Yeah, you really don't know if people will be there when you might... you don't know if people can be there with you when your feeling badly and people you can share those things with people and it's like you do have depressed, upsetting feelings, I mean the feelings like when you talk about your doubts about yourself (inaudible at 0:35:45.9) those are big things. And it's kind of like they're hard for you to get into in some way because they're... you can talk about them.
 But like that's what you're saying, like as, you were talking about them to me you weren't feeling them as, like they were coming there, they had those feelings sort of inside then talking about them became talking about them, not from them. [0:36:12.1]
 It was like they was, they were kind of intellectualizations or (crosstalk) - 
  - really kind of prevented the real things themselves from coming out. They got in the way, they were protective, they were (background noise) words (ph) 
 You feel like that's your style in a way.
 Like if you can cry.
 Or hug.
 I noticed the hug one seemed a little easier for you to agree with.
 Yeah, it's (inaudible) 
 Well, it may, I mean I kind of sense like if I was... let me go back to what was happening before earlier, like when I was saying some things about yourself and you talk about yourself being cold, insensitive, I kind of said some things back to you like I could see you getting upset about yourself, do you know what I mean?
 And depressed or, but it was more an active (ph) kind of upset and then it was kind of like you jumped away from it. I don't know if you saw it that way. [0:40:04.2]
 Well it was kind of - 
  - that was the thing I was pointing out, you know, then you say well if someone's a cold person, then they're... then you kind of removed it from yourself. I don't know if you remember - 
 Yeah, rather - 
  - I mean do you remember, did you feel a kind of upset at some point? I mean I sense like when we were talking about those things - 
 You're upset.
 And kind of like really inside you are upset. Just not sure of that? [0:41:03.8]
 Yeah, that, yeah, that's right because it doesn't come from it, which is the kind of thing that kind of changes it, it kind of more pushes it away, cools it off, puts a damper on it, shuts it down, turns you off inside and turns on your head, (crosstalk) like that. [0:41:48.6]
 Whether it's real or whether it's done because of expected, I mean do you see yourself objectively, because I mean that is kind of how you do operate, that is with the (crosstalk) with your experience. You kind of take it away and look at it and look at it kind of almost like a, not quite, but it's something like it's a, there's like a calculus problem. [0:43:17.7]
 And something that affect is that the emotions that are in (inaudible at 0:43:22.2) those experience just get sealed off when you remove from yourself. What really is important for you that's really there.
 (Inaudible)
 Yeah, like you're not even talking for yourself.
 How does, how does that make you like to think with kind of that's the way you may be, how does that make you feel?
 Don't know what to do.
 Yeah, I'm feeling, starting to feel a little disturbed because I somehow feel the way we're talking is very much what we're talking about.
 Do you see that? [0:44:59.3]
 I mean like I had it... it was... I was... I have the feeling almost like the two of us are looking at you - 
  - not in a, I, it felt very differently like when you were talking about yourself about like how you did feel unsure about yourself and kind of scared that you were a cold person, there was something different about that. It probably felt different to you, too, I mean it felt different to me on that.
 It's more like you were closer bringing those two together.
 Because why? Because it's so much a way of life for you perhaps.
 Yeah, is what you're saying like well I'm so, maybe I'm so just so used to living it, living looking at myself that I don't know what it would mean for me to really feel kind of alive and be talking from myself. It's kind of what you were talking about with -  [0:47:09.7]
 Well, you know, well yeah, it's like, which don't you know, the talking from yourself?
 Yeah, I guess it's kind of in part like what you were saying before like I feel like I go through things on the k... I... going through the motions of mechanically, I don't remember (inaudible at 0:47:36.7) but, better word for it but it's kind of like that's part of it in a way, all being in relationships than not like the, this girl talking about things but really you should be crying or something.
 To really be there.
 Right, yeah, in other words, like the words were right but, but you weren't, they removed really what emotions that were there.
 and you can be you, too, probably more, that enables you to be more open than you...
 Yeah, like you put a wall around yourself.
 Because you keep other people away and keep yourself away.
 You keep yourself deadened in a way, too, that - 
 What if you're unseen.
 You're unseen in a way. [0:51:15.9]
 In an objective way.
 Yeah, it sounds like you're really all confused about - 
 Yeah, what really is, is you - 
  - you are and what isn't. What is about you and what is real in you.
 Yes, you want there to be a difference. Like for me the difference is something like I remember saying to you last time and this is more healthy (ph) and this time when you're talking about big things about yourself. You know, who you are, not having a sense of yourself that I, I kind of sense, I had the feeling well my God these are, these are big things, I mean I would feel very upset about them.
 What I might not say them the way you say them. How does that make you feel?
 But like where are you are that's like what you said because I'm talking about someone else but how is, how do I do it otherwise?
 I mean I don't know any other way.
 Kind of looks like it makes you feel lost. [0:54:44.4]
 Yeah, it makes you feel badly (ph) empty like, what's there left after kind of the shell.
 (Crosstalk)
 Yeah, you may not know to do with it. [0:55:58.5]
 And thought about a lot in the style (ph) you thought about them. You thought them, maybe not felt them.
 It's kind of a feeling might have been once there, these things tend to come more or less empty intellectual things.
 Yeah, kind of harden yourself because it hurts.
 As when you felt it.
 Probably a lot less, but it's like there are, I mean I can sense when you're talking about some of those things, there are feelings there, but they're hard for you to get them. (Inaudible at 0:58:14.6) like they're, you're not getting, starting to get upset and those, those that are... you know they are there.
 Do you kind of want to put up the barricade.
 You want not to, but you do put up the barricade.
 Kind of live behind the mask.
 Kept it inside.
 (Inaudible at 0:59:27.1)
 What the hell (ph) can you do with it?
 It's kind of like, when you... like when you see yourself doing that, you're kind of like you really don't like yourself.
 Oh, about how upset you got.
 Didn't say anything.
 Kind of feeling (ph) yourself impotent in a way.
 Kind of feeling yourself impotent in a way, you're not doing anything, but yet you get upset for getting, getting depressed for getting upset.
 It really upsets you about yourself that you do that.
 It looks like it's kind of... saying that kind of depresses you, too.
 And it's kind of like another confusing thing about yourself that you just, like kind of disorients you (inaudible at 1:02:59.3) to do it.
 Well feelings are kind of big things in life to help you orient yourself.
 Well, kind of a, they're you.
 Yes. And not, not acting on them or expressing them is kind of throwing away a mocker (ph) of yourself.
 Like a mocker (ph) of yourself.
 That thing that is you.
 We've got to stop. (Inaudible at 1:04:00.0). You're confused with all that, but...
 Is the Wednesday at 12:30 a good time?
 So, how have you been?
 Did this trip go better than the last one I hope to [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Good.
 Oh.
 Is this for the same one you just house sat for or different?
 Uh-huh.
 Oh.
 Wow.
 And where is this house.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 That's nice.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Well, good.
 Good.
 Uh-huh.
 Oh that's nice of him.  
 I have not seen him personally for years but I've known him over the years professionally and years and years ago had dinner at his house.
 It's probably been fifteen years ago but I haven't seen him since then.
 He's very good and well respected.
 That's nice, good.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Okay.
 Okay, so when are you going to start this, probably this week or so.
 Oh, I know what you're talking about, I know what you mean.
 Okay.  That's sounds like a good plan.
 Okay, thank you.
 Uh-huh.
 I got records from [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 And where is he?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Well, that's a good thing to know.
 That sounds right, let me double check though.  They're 5's actually.
 And you were taking just two twice a day?
 Okay, so 10, 20 mg a day, okay.
 Sure.
 Uh-huh.
 Let's see, the Trileptal 150, you were taking half twice a day.
 Okay, all right.
 Huh.
 Huh.
 I understand, okay.
 Did the visual thing -
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 And then, I'm sorry, say it again, you thought you'd sleep better if you took the Vivactil
 That's certainly worth trying.
 Yeah, that's a reasonable thing to try.
 Okay.
 And also the question is, do we want to go higher on that one because you're on 20 a day now, the maximum is 60, so we have room to work with that one still if you want to try going higher.
 Do you want to try like three in the morning and three mid day?
 And see if that helps more.
 Okay.  Excuse me.  Okay, so three each morning and three mid day.  Are you still taking the Neurontin too?
 One twice a day.
 Okay and then the Lunesta, it sounds like it's iffy.
 Okay.
 So did you go ahead and stop it then did you say or did you get your prescription filled?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 And are you having trouble getting to sleep these days or is it more waking up during the night?
 Okay.
 Okay and then how's your energy during the day, are you tired or do you have enough energy?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah.  How's your appetite been?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Okay.  And how about anxiety, do you feel much anxiety?
 Okay.  And are you using the Ativan or Lorazepam?
 Okay.
 Does it work when you take it?
 Okay.
 Yeah, so that's only a mg a day.
 That's a good attitude to have because it's effective, use it.  What about concentration, is it difficult to focus?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Good.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 [PATIENT NAME], have you had any suicidal thoughts recently?
 Okay.
 Okay.  So it sounds like right now what you've been doing is taking the Neurontin twice a day.
 Two Protriptyline twice a day or Vivactil and the Ativan as needed.
 So maybe what we could do is bump up the Vivactil to three, twice a day and see if we can get more out of it.
 Even at that dose, that's only half the maximum so we could even go higher if we needed to.
 Then use the Ativan for the anxiety and the Neurontin, I don't know if it's doing anything or not but probably with you getting ready to leave, it's not a good time to try stopping it.
 Does it seem to help?
 Okay, good.
 Now I'm just thinking too, what are you going to do about your medicine when you're in California if it's like five months.  Can you transfer the prescriptions out there?
 Oh good.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Yeah, yeah, and as long as it's okay for the prescriptions to be transferred, if you need a refill you can call me and I can call them in then too, here or there, whatever works.
 For the pharmacy.  Any other stresses right now, that's plenty but anything else going on?
 Yeah.
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.  Any ideas of what you're going to do after you're done housesitting out there yet or you're just going to wait and see?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, well it sounds like you've got a good attitude about things.
 You know, the truth is none of us know what's going to happen six months down the road anyway, you just live one day at a time and kind of see where life takes us.
 And you've got a good plan right now, it's working and you're taking good care of your health so.
 Good, good.  Okay, well anything else going on that I didn't ask you about that you wanted to talk about?
 Okay.
 Okay, well then why don't we stick with this plan then and if you're out there and you have any problems or questions, you can always call me too.
 I can always, you know, call out there if you had questions or if we needed to adjust the medications or anything and then, maybe what we can do is just whenever you come back, you can just give me a call and we can check in and see how things are going.
 Does that sound reasonable?
 Okay.  Yeah, because it doesn't make sense to even set an appointment now because you just don't know for sure what your plans are going to be.  Okay.
 No, no, I'm not going anywhere.
 I'm planted here so -
 I've been here for eighteen years, well I've lived here my whole life really.
 Except for when I was in training so I'm, I don't have any plans to go anywhere so -
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 When is she leaving, do you know?
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, you'll leave before she does it sounds like, yeah.  All right, well let's, let's see, I didn't check to see if you had refills now.  The Vivactil I did six months worth in May so we're good there.  Ativan, oh gosh, it's been a while, that one I'm not sure about because you don't use it every day.
 And the Neurontin, I think the last time I gave you refills, that was July oh six.  Do you know if you have plenty of that left or not?  Maybe a different doctor may have refilled?  Oh here it is, I did a years worth in October so we're good through October on that one.
 So I think we're fine on everything.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh.
 Uh-huh.
 That's a wise choice I think.
 Well good.  Well, I hope you have a good time out there housesitting.
 I hope it goes smoothly.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 I think so too, grieving and letting go.
 And moving forward and we have to let go in order to move forward so.
 Good, that's the secret is to find what works.
 So [PATIENT NAME], I think you're doing well.PT Well thank you so much for helping me [PHYSICIAN NAME].  It's just I'm so scared of losing you.
 I'll be right here a long long time.
 So if anything comes up where you need me, just give me a call, okay.
 All right.
 Have a wonderful time and good luck with the fishing.
 Well good, good.
 The fun is just to be there.
 All right, take care.
 Bye bye.
 May 4th, Second Interview.
 And I've seen you together at meetings and stuff and...
 ...like I don't know where I know him from because I went to the college...
 ...in Sperryville.
 But I mean I also want to know, it seemed to make a difference to me and I really can't figure out why, but I wondered whether it made a difference to you or whether...
 I mean it doesn't make a difference in how I think about you or...
 ...anything but I guess, I can't really say what it is but it seems slightly like it could be odd more than anything else.
 You know that it could make you uncomfortable.
 No, I really do, I think I [heard it on] (ph)...
 ...unless we've...No, it doesn't make much difference to me then.
 You didn't want to react or you really weren't?
 Yeah.
 So is it really like just feeling like you can never get completed on that, on getting caught up...
 ...with this?
 Yeah.
 You kind of don't have that in you, you know?
 And every time I'm presented with a problem I get upset and then have to say, "Well I don't know...I just don't know any more than you do and I really can't say anything." Which makes him feel bad, it becomes very, it's a very vicious circle. Like right now he needs a haircut and that's just a drag because he's got really strange hair and if he's out looking for a job he should get a decent haircut. Well we know of places in Chicago but we don't know of any places in D.C.. If he walks into a barber he'll be butchered and if we just had...one of our friends do it he would be butchered and...the idea is kind of a hard sell, you want to present yourself as sort of together, intelligent, young man whenever you're tromping around in the middle of a recession looking for a job. So we've both really on edge about that, which is stupid... [0:06:54.8]
 So it's like a really concrete problem that's confronting you and being at a complete loss...
 ...but...
 M-hmm. And you kind of, I guess you kind of mean that, that you can't, it's not that you can't think of ideas but you really don't want to or you can't even get it together to do that...
 ...and to kind of put out for another person, is that what you mean for him and that's what you need to say, right?
 It's like, is that like not really feeling any of that set energy that you want, wanted to give anything to him?
 You wish you could.
 So when she prescribes for you and prescribes that what happens to you, what do you really want to say to her?
 You mean otherwise, "What the hell do you think you're doing saying something like that"?
 M-hmm.
 And so it's something that it betrays such a complete lack of understanding...
 ...of what your situation is?
 Wow, because what, because that too is completely misunderstanding where they've put you?
 M-hmm.
 Well so that's one more thing where you just can't organize yourself?
 Yeah, right.
 But those things are kind of concrete solutions but do they really make you feel any better? [0:12:49.1]
 Yeah, so you aren't going to be - so it's like thinking that you aren't going to be able to do it?
 Like kind of that you're just going to be opting to get into a situation where you're going to feel overwhelmed again?
 But I, but you mean that it's not, not the curing of colitis that you'd really be doing it, but for just calling a truce and then a really enforced one, where you would...
 ...like and another way to put that is that like now you can't seem to make that kind of room for yourself, so that kind of room for resting, for thinking of whatever...
 ...sort of the things that are good about it are, and it doesn't seem like you can do it except by complete...
 ...giving, giving your all to that?
 Yeah, that and you're not saying...
 ...that that's irrelevant?
 Um...
 You can't see any ways that you could possibly make it any different, I mean in terms of structuring your time?
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Right, m-hmm. Well you say, "what I'll do is I'll, I'll probably pick up more time because it's summertime and I should make more money", like there's this inevitable link there.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah. So, so now this is, it's not like it's because it's summer and you have to do more?
 But you may have to because of what...
 ...your summer's going to be like? [0:18:40.7]
 So you think this is not right?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And it's your fault?
 You mean time they're using and you're just trying to keep the panic from, from...
 ...getting to you and there he is... [overlapping voices at 0:20:30.0]
 M-hmm, and there's a kind of bitterness and envy in that?
 That's interesting.
 M-hmm, but that, that solution doesn't really sit well, right?
 Yeah, the other stuff, like saying the other stuff has gotten so frantic that...
 ...you're just like this way?
 But do you mean that when you think about ordering the time you have that you just panic and can't think that through?
 Over?
 Kind of like thinking all the time you're doing it it's not enough...
 ...this just isn't enough?
 M-hmm.
 You can distract yourself from, from that feeling of incompleteness...
 ...if that's the kind of dynamic that you're describing?
 Yeah.
 And I guess the problem with the reserve room reading is that he keeps giving you the message that you're stupid, that you don't understand?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, so there is more likely, there is a manageable task and you still have... [overlapping voices at 0:29:23.0]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm. So you look at all this stuff and it's just like this incredible amount?
 Like it, and like what happens if you look at it and what does it say to you?
 M-hmm. You'd like to know you can do something...
 ...at this point? And it's like...
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah. It would reflect that also that contrast is kind of getting to you?
 That it's such that when you think of it now not being, I mean just like such little things that would that difference...
 ...and you're like torn.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. And at this point you need that sense.
 You need to have that coming from somewhere and you really want to have, besides that that's your usual style...
 ...I guess especially now it's just the thing to have some kind of thing that you can say that about...
 ...that you've done something.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Sure.
 Sure.
 There's not one on this floor, there's one up a floor.
 Um, I'll show you where.
 No, it's like... [inaudible at 0:35:38.1] [silence from 0:35:50.2 to 0:36:28.9]
 I realized something which is I'm not really clear on, at all clear on how you see this time problem, like you said sometimes it's like...
 ...the time isn't there, like and it even seems like it's, that's a structural thing?
 And other times you say that you feel guilty about this structuring...
 ...not structuring time and stuff, and I wonder if there's a way those fit together, whether it's kind of like feeling both though, I mean and I'm not knowing what you're saying there?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Uh-huh. And that it's something that you have not addressed the situation...
 ...and that you ought to be taking the responsibility for?
 And what like, and so it's not exactly like feeling like, like you're just out of control and can't do it but like you haven't faced up to, the fact that you haven't faced up to something?
 That you can't even face up to it?
 Well you see yourself not facing up to it and like I guess I mean thinking that you ought to be doing it but every time it when it comes around to maybe that you could...
 ...what happens then?
 Well okay, it's like, um, a time comes where you, theoretically you could plan and structure your time, like do those times come, do you experience a time when you say, "Well I could try to do something in it."
 M-hmm.
 You don't care?
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, you always think you can do more and you can't?
 And is that to say kind of planning for your [new low rate] (ph) seems so...
 ...sickening in a way...
 ...that you hate to admit it?
 But it's very demoralizing to think that way.
 So it's kind of like seeing it flick away and, and trying to make your... [inaudible at 0:43:55.4] ...[out of the rest.] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 And do you want, do you believe that? I mean are you, I mean I don't mean do you believe it, it's clearly the case, but I mean are you reconciled to that?
 Okay.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well but that doesn't seem like the problem right there, it's more like that what you see happening is that when you, when you do that lunch thing, that three-hour lunch thing...
 ...the whole day goes up in smoke from that.
 Now maybe it's like saying, well maybe one way of getting around it is not to do this three-hour thing, but now when you're in the situation of doing the three-hour thing it... [0:45:36.7]
 ...it's everything else evaporating and that would be setting off everything else, and that really gets to you.
 Is that like you have a kind of cloud over you?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Hours that you can't make for yourself anymore?
 Not...
 I know.
 Yeah.
 Okay, it's okay.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah, and just really cut off from everything, from a sense of confidence about yourself and from...
 ...things are changed and...
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 You mean like it's like feeling empty but like you'd rather have it that way than what you see as the only alternative?
 So it's only things you're fearing if you're out of bed you mean?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah, I know, and that's something though that's kind of distracting, so just keep yourself busy and don't, don't bother looking at everything that there is?
 But it's still very tempting?
 Even though you know it's not a...
 ...side that's how you would theoretically speak?
 It isn't constructive, what do you mean by that?
 You kind of can't turn off those other thoughts and worries?
 M-hmm.
 M-mm.
 M-hmm, yeah.
 So always having the rug out pulled...pulled out from under you...
 ...if that's what you're telling me.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 I know it's difficult.
 Can you manage that?
 M-hmm. So what's the idea of solving it that way?
 It does?
 M-hmm. And then there's something great for you in that idea of just completely setting your own terms...
 ...for once?
 M-hmm.
 And also something in there about saying to him, "No, I'll tell you when I'm going to take my breaks."
 M-hmm.
 I know.
 What do you think of that?
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 You get impatient that he needs you so very much?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You want more from him?
 And when something like that hits you on top of everything else...
 ...then?
 M-hmm. [0:58:07.4]
 M-hmm.
 Yeah, but what...
 Yeah, so what happens when he lays that on you and, and you're really furious and upset, right? Like, "who in the hell does he think he is" when all this...
 ...does is completely... [overlapping voices at 0:58:50.1]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 M-hmm. Yeah and, and you can't have it, then...
 Yeah, I see, it's a logical thing, like the time doesn't let you have it but he also doesn't let you have it.
 Yeah, you don't know if you want it but you aren't really given any room to...
 ...to find out, yeah.
 I know.
 M-hmm, yeah.
 "How could it mean that much to you?"
 It's the final thing in terms of your life...
 ...you know, "it's the final straw" you need to tell him.
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm.
 And you completely, I guess you mean what's so terrible about that is you completely put yourself out, you really thought you were going to solve that thing.
 You knew you weren't?
 But?
 You were going to try?
 M-hmm.
 (chuckling) And you want to because of what...
 ...I mean, well no, why do you want to, because I guess it isn't that you really, you never thought it would really solve anything but...
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You would think that, yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Uh-huh. It's like it is no big deal in any way that you can see, unless a person whips themselves up into making it a big deal.
 And so it's like, well I guess in a certain way this, the thing about the apron is, "Look, I see through you", you know? Yeah, especially if just...
 And you still feel it...
 ...then?
 and you kind of...
 ...want to say, "Oh, come on!"
 [I see.] (ph)
 Uh-huh.
 The dishes?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. So what is it when he, when he does something like that it seems incredibly unreasonable to you?
 That's when this thing starts really building up inside of you I guess?
 It really seems to?
 You should be able to figure out how come it matters to him about the dishes?
 I see, not only figure out but also not be bothered?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Right. I guess another thing, it bothers you that he's like this but it's he takes up your mind space with that, too...
 ...when your mind space is already low...
 ...loaded, why does he not want to do it?
 [I mean that's like at least...] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 Right, "this is ridiculous". [1:07:17.2]
 Yeah.
 And who it hits is you, m-hmm?
 And you mean and it kind of radiates over onto you?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 He says it shouldn't bother you, you mean...
 ...basically...
 ...when he sends it out into the air?
 Oh, it just bothers you and not people...
 ...is that what...
 ...he's saying?
 Right.
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. [1:10:16.3]
 I know.
 So it's almost like when you think about that there doesn't seem to be a way that both of you can deal with those things...
 ...with each thing? Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah, m-hmm.
 Yeah, there's not too people who need to vent, yeah.
 M-hmm.
 And is that exactly the kind of thing you're talking about that happens to you?
 Like what happened just now with that?
 Oh, I don't mean that...
 Do you want to tell the whole thing?
 Okay.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Okay, now wait, the hassle is that he's going to be annoyed at you and you think he'll be justified for that?
 Like you should've remembered?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. So it's just that, it's not to blame you for...one more thing (ph)?
 And one more hassle with him...
 ...not just administratively getting over there?
 Okay. I've got to stop.
 Oops! [silence from 1:14:40.0 to 1:14:54.9]
 Right and it's like you think about having a plan and you don't, it's like once a plan gets in your mind...
 ...it's incredibly frustrating to have it distorted where...
 You're really already into all that stuff that you're...
 Right.
 [And so you're asking me if it is right to try and say...] (ph) [1:15:27.6]
 Session six.
 So you're anxious too much?
 But you didn't (inaudible at 0:52) their trucks.
 So they're fun to drive? 
 (But kind of I'd say fun to drive) (ph).
 But you can't challenge them. I mean you're saying it really ... you're worried about it or you're aspired (ph) [3:13]
 So you're not really sure what's going to happen to you? What you're going to be charged with.
 Right.
 So what is the assumption that they are not going to charge you with much?
 (inaudible at 4:37)
 (inaudible at 4:40)
 Not looking forward to (inaudible at 4:44)
 (inaudible at 4:55) Because you just know that tomorrow's (inaudible at 4:58)
 (inaudible at 5:05)
 It bugs you because it reminds you of yourself?
 Yeah but at the time.
 Could be both?
 How can he be so ...
 Shallow.
 Okay. You feel like scoffing at him in a way. [6:02]
 And what's that?
 Sometimes you have to put down (a ruler) (ph) and that'll make you feel better.
 And you thought you'd grown out of that?
 Right. [9:08]
 But it seems like somehow - it's almost like that's going - is that going back to something you did before too? You really look at yourself doing this sort of thing and hate yourself for acting like that again. 
 (inaudible at 10:42)
 Okay. So you'd like to have the attention very much. But when you get it that way it just doesn't seem like the right - doesn't really feel like the way you want to do it ... even if it works.
[Pause]
 You're telling me it feels like no one else really cares that much about ... about you.
[Pause]
 Was you angry (about it) (ph)?
 You can't feel that with her. You can't participate in that and that makes you feel far away you mean from that? The kind of 
 Yeah. [15:08]
 It almost sounds like it hurts you when she's not serious about something ... that you want her to take seriously. 
 By her acting silly for example?
 It's just kind of underlined the fact that she can change moods completely. If anything you'll still be solemn and unhappy. 
 And you feel guilty about that?
 But that makes it sound like you feel that you shouldn't tell her. That it isn't helping you. That what would really - what you'd really like is for her to believe that it is even though it isn't. 
 When there is that contradiction of things?
 Yeah. 
 (Bugs you) (ph)?
 Touchy when she's in some kind of mood that's bothering you, you mean? [21:05]
 You mean when she's real nice to you, you don't believe simple. That she wants to be nice to you. You kind of don't trust that at face value when you.
 You probably just think what's happened to me that I'm being so touchy. And it's so hard for me to let her be free.
 (You sound relieved) (ph).
 Yeah.
 Just the little parts of it that would set that off.
 You were taken over by the whole feeling.
 Part of what was so good about that that you could get so absorbed in that.
 Being able to forget.
 (inaudible at 25:32)
 Oh a rush. Oh I see.
 So it was very intense.
 And you were really pleased that you could get there - get that feeling for yourself?
 And you afraid you'd feel disapproval from them?
 A little bit.
 Like you were about as close to nothing in sleep and death which would be good.
 Never been able to get that sensation before.
 Is there some kind of quality in what you're telling me you feel happy that you could create something that you could enjoy? And happy that you could actually make it and get there?
 Yeah it's like sitting there listening to a silence?
 Just being able to shut things out and turn it off. [29:59]
 And seeing nothing.
 That that weather would be soothing ... to just (inaudible at 30:54).
 More like pulling away.
 But so
 Relaxing. (inaudible at 32:28)
 If that were you'd be going there?
 Because your life really does seem pretty dim.
 (How so) (ph)?
 Like everything you touch turns a dark color. It's like your life is a piece of gray with a little spot on it that's kind of brilliant. It shines out some from the rest.
 You what?
 You mean if you stop caring then you'll take cocaine?
 Yeah.
 If you don't even care enough to try that.
 And like nothing seems to be worth that to try.
 Are you talking about the blackness? The reason that black (inaudible at 37:21)
 I guess I really have no clue here. As what all that dismalness is. 
 So not only rotten but rotten ... almost like rotten in a corner or [39:04]
 Like you can't really imagine comprehending it.
 And it also sounds like when you're in that corner it's like a feeling of having been hurt a whole lot of times. 
 Not only do other people hurt do it but you add to the scars yourself.
 Is that something you feel you do?
 And that even makes it worse that you're helping it along.
 Almost like a part wants to stay in the corner and wants to say stop pushing you're fingers out of here. [41:58]
 It's the stone in your pipe.
 Nothing would touch you. And you wouldn't touch anything. 
 Why do you say you'd be free? You mean free in your imagination?
 So that makes it sound like when you do these things to cut all your senses off to cut off everything. In a way you're hoping to get some kind of freedom that way.
 Freedom as in running. Do you mean running away or just? 
 Like it would be a freedom from any pressure or influence.
 Because that's what's so strong that pushes on you and you can't get away from.
 Wouldn't you love to be raised from that pressure wound? [45:45]
[Pause]
 It wouldn't matter because you'd be in a different room. It wouldn't matter what they did to your body.
 It sounds like that is part of pain right now is that it doesn't and they can do things to you.
 You want to try to forget that? 
 Maybe what?
 So what you really want is to (die more) (ph)?
 I'm wondering what you're thinking now. I'm wondering if that seems like pressure to you for me to ask that. [50:02]
 (inaudible at 50:34)
 But it seems that there's nothing that really seems important to you?
[Pause]
 (You can't wait) (ph)?
 Seems what?
 Yeah. (inaudible at 52:17)
 That there just wasn't anything there.
 Okay. But there's nothing there like that they can take that would be meaningful to you ... (that you want to lose it) (ph). [53:00]
 You still have that.
 Right now you mean?
 Do you find that hopeless? It's getting dimmer than it was before. 
 I guess that must make you feel a little sorry for yourself too to be in that kind of state.
 Like that's sort of one of the things you won't - I don't want to ever feel.
 Wondering if you got to be angry?
 But you wouldn't want - you wouldn't take part in it? [56:48]
 You won't hear what was happening? Or you wouldn't show that? Or do anything just sit there?
 Would you want to be ignored?
 Just something that very much like to have.
 (inaudible at 57:37) We're going to have to stop. 
 It's 8:30.
 Yeah Wednesday at seven. Okay. 
 Yeah, I'm sure this is a horrible time to have to get somewhere.
 [inaudible 0:00:41] just sitting there.
 But like this would be part of that feeling of not being able to... 
 Are you saying something like... the image that came to my mind was breaking in, when you're sitting with a bunch of people, you really have to take so much energy to break in. And I was wondering if sometimes you thought you had to push your way in here too. 
 I'm not sure into what. 
 Do you feel at all as though I have some idea about what it might be that we should talk about that I'm not ...
 You're saying like it would help to feel you were going somewhere, maybe. [0:05:08]
 Because you're saying about wishing you could take off where you left off, if only to start. But I was wondering if that also felt like there would be some continuity to it. That it is like fragmenting the talk about one rub and then another and then another.
 I'm not sure whether you're saying that and just saying, "ok, I know this is how it is but still this is how it makes me feel." Or whether there's some sense of, "look, I really don't like this and I wish I could change it in some way. Or I wish I could do something different." I'm not really sure...
 Are you saying why bring them out and really look at them when they may end up hurting you more? 
 Sounds like just toward the end there, and go ahead after this if you want, I just wanted to say that it sounds like you're feeling kind of bitter about where you saw yourself at this point. I was wondering...
 Well, when you were talking about some of the things that make it hard for you to talk or make it confusing, it sounded like you were feeling sort of... kind of disgusted with that, or disgusted with feeling that you've been working on some things and haven't changed them or why bring them up and... 
 So you're saying, "if there's nothing for me in being self-contained and in part." Everything is going on that level at this point.
 Felt kind of like rushing away from a lack of structure, and then it sounds like finding yourself threatened with another kind of lack of structure almost.
 A friend...
 And also at some level it sounds to me like formulating the task like that or at that level makes it a hell of a thing to try and do. I'm not sure if that's clear but it's like saying, "I have to go meet people." It is like... It leaves me with a sense of imperative, that it is something I need to do, but nothing says I can do this to go there, or I can do this to go and approach it. Am I clear in what I'm saying?
 Well, not only that, but I guess I was thinking just formulating them in that way, to me, makes things like that seem even bigger, or even more impossible. Like saying, "well, I know what the trouble is and now I have to go do some X and X is maybe something that's been hard all my life," and putting in a big lump like that makes it impossible, or feel impossible anyway. 
 OK.
 So it is like you're saying, "Look it isn't a matter of steps, I know how to take the steps. The real struggle is inside me, I'm the one that's making it impossible for me to do it." I don't know how that battle is going to go.
 It sounds like it is just this total thing, and you can't even bring yourself to communicate when you feel like that.
 Is there something about this, this is truly effecting you, is there something that there is a feeling that you will sully this happiness of theirs, or that you would make it go sour a little bit?
 It sounds like some of that is almost like, "If I try to communicate with some of these people who are happy, they're going to have to protect me, they're going to have to think about what they say to me, they're going to have to check up on me and see if I can take it almost. They'll sense that I don't know whether pity is relevant here, but that they'll have to treat me like a weak sister sort of."
 Something about, I hear you saying, "They might be really willing to receive me, to hear about what my problem is, what I'm worrying about, or how I'm feeling about this self of mine," but there sounds like there is something in you that has to feel you can participate in a certain way or else it is not, sounds like another kind of impossibility. There's something that just keeps you from doing it. What would, sometimes these questions are hard to answer, what would be the consequence for you, how would you feel if you spent a weekend with one of these people and you felt that that bad self was pretty evident. That you couldn't help pick it up at some point, that you couldn't cover it up.
 And she has a part of it really now.
 And take that part of you along that can really share that dream and say, "I really am glad that you've got part of it." But you're saying you would have to take that jealous part along too. Or at least you would have to take the feelings with you, and that... [0:33:46]
 Like what?
 They'll know it or sense it maybe, and you certainly know it, and you don't think you can do anything about it and that leaves you...
 I'm wondering, and I realize in some ways this is probably a very different situation but, I'm wondering what it does to you to come here and talk about what you're talking about. What is the self-love that you bring here?
 Are there days... Have there been days or times when you've minded what you've brought in here? Like you would have like to gone in some different way?
 I guess I'm wondering if I've seen any of what you're talking about.
 What's in that? There are all kinds of reasons people don't want to talk about things. Is it similar to what you're talking about with your friends? [0:39:05]
 Are you feeling pressed by these questions? Am I pushing too hard?
 It is almost like you're saying, "how can that happen? If people are so important, how can that happen that I can cut myself off like that?" Is that something I'm saying that you're not saying?
 Well it sounds like there's just a total difference between how you were there and how you felt about yourself and how you are now. It is like there's no... well, let's see. I'm not sure what I mean. It sounds like you're just feel like a totally different person.
 Do you have a sense for what those things are that make it better or worse? Or is it totally unpredictable? [0:47:26]
 There's no way to tell them, "I'd like to be with you now, except there are times when I can't. I don't want you to feel that I don't care about you, because I do, but I can't come." 
 It's like there's no kind of dignity or strength in saying something like, "I want be by myself, there are times when I want to be by myself. I don't want to talk to anybody." You feel like to indicate anything at all those people would take you as really needing something you don't want. I don't know if it is pity, I don't know if that struck anything to you or not, but it is a word that keeps occurring to me.
 That is very degrading or whatever.
 Almost like being depersonalized. Like you're in pain.
 That like in doing what you feel is necessary you not only hurt yourself, but then again, you give yourself this impression of something that you really don't intend. You don't intend to push these people away.
 Like somehow that emanated from you with a force that really frightened her.
 You don't want to overwhelm them or something and disappoint them almost. Pushing yourself away.
 It has to be how you see yourself, and however you're presenting yourself that day. Or whatever you look like on the outside. It sounds like right now it is not anything anyone can do for you. It has to be how you see yourself.
 I don't want to cut you off, but we have to stop. 
 Yeah. Go ahead and start.
 Uh, huh,
 The one that you made love with [that you were telling me about?] (ph) Let me say one more thing here...you seem much less tense (ph) and like you seem more relaxed to me (inaudible).
 It's almost like thinking about saying it is worse than giving it out.
 Well it's definitely not just an all or nothing thing anymore. Like if it works...it works. And if it doesn't then you might have to get tougher if (ph) that's the way it is. It also sounds to me like in another sense there that you have somehow...that it had got clear to you a long time ago...or that it had begun too. That you kind of decided then that I just like getting it out...it was a very important thing.
 You can't get away from it.
 Are you saying... (inaudible) ...but it's not that bad.
 What I hear you saying is that when you can face up to the situation and accept the fact that your marriage is in trouble...you can face that and also be with what you need in it. Then things...and not think of it as kind of a life or death failure...an all or nothing thing that you've got to make happen...and things go more smoothly and you can see all these things.
 You get really easily set off and easily angered and then after you just feel bad.
 Did it like ...(inaudible) Something like you don't know if he really cares about you...and the other one is like he's going to jump on your or something like that. No touching. It's dangerous or something...is that it?
 Like he was going to take something out of you.
 I'm having trouble understanding exactly why (inaudible) there's this repulsion or creepy...or I don't...
 Can you tell me about something specific?
 You've see more...(inaudible)
 What did you think?
 You mean like posing naked? Is that what you're talking about?
 It sounds like when you were little you were really getting two messages there. I mean one was that - and that was confusing - you know one was that sex was this terrible thing that nobody should do or nobody should be caught doing. And then you go down and see this thing happening and you're turned on by it but at the same time you're not.
 Yeah well you really have two things. I mean you had it flaunted in your face but at the same time you were told it wasn't supposed to be flaunted in your face.
 But when you see a man that's ugly and repulsive or...? [24:12]
 And that was the same feeling you got when your father was touching you?
 You know this might be wrong but it's something to think about. I wonder if you would feel like your father was going to attack you or something like that. That he'd seen you or that somehow you were going to exposed that way. That you kind of...but then at the same time that was really wrong? You know. So that you could only begin to feel like bonding (inaudible).
 But I understand you used to think (inaudible)
 And I also was...you would just turn off. Like that was something you couldn't be...you couldn't be and then you'd get yourself out of it. 
 They just seem so ugly and (inaudible) and repulsive...
 There is something so wrong with that. So wrong...so ugly.
 That they should do something so horrible or...what part of it was (inaudible).
 Almost like that was floating in the air but never acknowledged?
 Yeah and you're also saying that it was thrown in your face.
 Just to know that your bodies are different...(inaudible).
 So it was never like she helped you see that making love was a nice thing or a thing that people share with each other. It was always...like it was something to be afraid of...not looked at or something to be hidden or something that was slightly perverse or I don't know?
 It sounds like your curiosity though is something like a fascination like you said with something.... slightly wrong but slightly right...does that make sense?
 Now that it can be had (inaudible)...you don't know what it means.
 Was she breaking out of (inaudible).
 What do you mean by that?
 (overlapping voices) (inaudible) ...for sure your relationship is in trouble with...(inaudible) or you feel like it's all you?
 It's your fault because you're unhappy with him?
 You have the same feeling about that?
 Like somehow a way of reacting (inaudible).
 (inaudible)
 It sounds like your experience with Charlie is somehow equivalent to...the relationship is somehow equivalent. And that your experiences with Charlie and your experiences with your father...they mesh somehow...they become united.
 You don't feel like you're at home. You still feel little (ph) to your body.
 You've just never grown up. You've never created any space for yourself. You've never come out on your own.
 It's not real. You can't (inaudible)
 You need something more solid. (inaudible)
 I hear you say that it's just its not real for you yet...that you really would rather be off with younger people having fun. It's like it's too stogy or too stiff...too forced.
 Like he'd go along with like saying you'd never been married until right now and you don't have anything.
 Because now if you didn't want to leave that they would be hanging on to you with everything that they had.
 That's when your dad (inaudible) you're more likely to say...you know don't touch me...don't hang on to me. Don't do that crap (ph) because he wants you to do it. It's like he's dying to do that. (Inaudible)
 (inaudible at 65:03)
 Cutting yourself off.
 It sounds like your beginning to let a lot of feelings come out...and that's not easy. (inaudible).
 Yes. That kind of [puts us up.] (ph) I don't have a clock and I think that... (inaudible)
 How did you feel when you said that over and over...like ah...you really begin to let things in and that's...(inaudible) your running away from it but it's your happiness. Before you've probably known (inaudible)...but kind of not accepted it... (inaudible). You know its better but it's also painful.
 Next week you can come at 6:00 if that's ok. Is that better then...or a little after like 6:00 or... Here you go.
 This is Client Number 1923-018, Client 1923-018, Session Number 5.
 For a coat?
 Wow.
 It sounds like it was a really a pleasure to spend money on yourself and buy clothes. 
 Yeah, yeah.
 It makes you feel good to wear it because it looks good on you...
 That's right...
 Didn't have much luck?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (chuckles)
 Yes.
 (inaudible 6:23)
 Downtown in one of those buildings?
 Hm.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 It's more your personality than the place.
 So you'd have to start to make friends from scratch if you moved.
 Exciting to see a new place.
 Oh (inaudible 8:17).
 Clubbing?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you're going to a new place and you've just got some new clothes.
 When you actually get there, you'll walk into the bar and start to get a little nervous and think "Well..."
 Um Hm. You sit there and wait and no one comes over and you...
 Um Hm.
 Tapping your fingers on the table...
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Yeah. [11:43]
 As though everyone can see that you aren't dancing with anyone. 
 Yeah, right, because...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 The shopping coup (laughs).
 I hate dresses. I really do. I hate them. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Like on a business level you're not up for evaluation-you, yourself. 
 But not him.
 Yeah. Freeze, right?
 (laughs)
 Yeah, yeah.
 Hmm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Hmm.
 A big difference.
 Going to the other extreme.
 (chuckles)
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Why is that?
 So watching him act up and play with his food and nobody's noticing...
 Yeah.
 Um Hm.
 You started to get more and more irritated. [22:09]
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Because you were so surprised because you didn't think you were doing anything wrong.
 Yeah.
 Oh, you were talking about how you get along well with older people and kids.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 (chuckles) Yeah, yeah.
 He's really easy-going about it?
 Yes.
 So he thinks he's letting you off.
 I don't think so.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 I guess I never noticed that.
 It hurts.
 Yes, but it feel maybe your throat's going to close up. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah, right.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Um Hm. Um Hm. And there you are sitting watching these rats die of suffocation with their necks caught in this thing.
 It started to really get you.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 Did-yeah, something about it would just stay with you.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm. [31:02]
 But you sit and watch them struggling and helplessly in...
 Um Hm.
 Yeah.
 Hmm.
 Yes, yes.
 Yes, yes.
 Um Hm.
 Into what? [33:05]
 Yeah.
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's sort of something kind of you don't want to say that to him...
 Yeah.
 They won't think it's like flip or something...
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 Carefully present just the right information and not let any of the wrong information slip.
 You don't like to be so devious. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah. [37:08]
 Yeah, Um Hm.
 Hmm.
 Hmm.
 Oh, getting old. Feeble-minded. 
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Now forgetting the dates and books and stuff-that's not so convenient?
 Hmm.
 You don't quite understand why you can't act on the stuff you plan to do.
 (chuckles) [42:29]
 I know. 
 Do you think that's what it is? That you're afraid?
 Yeah, it sounds more like it's too much trouble or something.
 Yeah.
 Hmm.
 Um Hm.
 But somehow you're sitting around and...
 Afraid to stick your neck out?
 So that even calling someone up is kind of exposing yourself.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm. Um Hm. Your first impulse is always to stay home and you have to give yourself a pep talk to do it.
 Um Hm. Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 I'm not sure what happened with-you said to yourself "I think I'll go to bed tonight" and you just think how sort of it would be sort of warm and cozy and easy or...?
 Yeah.
 You sort of took yourself in hand and said we're going to the store.
 (laughs)
 Mmm.
 Um Hm. Um Hm. [51:34]
 In your own little cosm that's comfortable and you're there.
 Yeah. Nothing strikingly bad is going to happen to you.
 Nothing lost. Yes, yes. 
 Um Hm.
 It's not like you're doing something where you might get rejected or anything.
 Um Hm.
 You know, it's almost as if something tells you when you are in a safe place, stay there. 
 Um Hm. Um Hm. Do you like that?
 I missed.
 That's strange. I'd be working.
 I don't know. I mean, well, the thing you said about staying in your own apartment where it's your place maybe, but I don't know. 
 Sheer laziness. 
 Hmm.
 Yeah, it's like there's nothing-you don't sort of-you can't get enthusiastic about it. You don't think-you aren't looking forward to having a really nice dinner. It's just something you've go to drag yourself through.
 What do you see (inaudible 57:22).
 Because you don't expect anything good to happen.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 We should be quitting. (blank space in tape) [58:07]
 Maybe you could make it Thursday.
 This is client 1923-018. Session number 11. March 4th, 1971. That is a really cute outfit.
 Yeah, I would imagine so.
 Oh yeah? What happened.
 You really were relaxed?
 That was good.
 It was very flattering!
 And they are all clustered around you.
 Talk about feeling special!
 An embarrassment of riches!
 Five guys clustered around me?
 A-ha.
 You have so many more ideas than you ever thought you had.
 Like they didn't quite register.
 That is just an example of something that you could have stopped yourself from doing but you didn't and it was really kind of neat!
 Oh yeah?
 It must have really shocked you.
 Will you go and take the tests from that guy - the guy who did the research project? There is this research project here. 0:15:04.6
 I think so, yeah.
 Yeah, he (inaudible 15:13) before and after.
 Sure, sure.
 I can give you his name.
 Oh, for the job thing.
 Like a big stew pot sort of beginning.
 You don't really know what you are doing and you don't feel confident.
 But it is not like starting all over with someone who maybe thinks you can do all of these...much, much more and is going to be terribly disappointed?
 Everything is scary; partly exciting.
 Everything is starting all over again.
 It is almost like you will step into a different life or something.
 As long as you don't have to impose yourself on them in that way. 0:24:00.1
 Like if you worked with somebody or something.
 I missed you there.
 It sort of makes you feel badly when you see so many people around your own age and yet you are not socializing with them. 
 Yeah, so it is a disappointment. 0:27:00.9
 Can you bitch with any graduate students?
 So it didn't work?
 Are you thinking of moving north and being closer?
 You and Ariel?
 That is incredible.
 I think Central Park area is being expensive.
 Yeah.
 Is that just for two bedrooms?
 Yeah.
 Yeah I know what you mean.
 That is really good.
 Especially compared to an apartment in (inaudible 35:08).
 I am thinking about the changes in (inaudible 37:38): all sorts of nice possibilities are opening up.
 About getting a job?
 So that you don't have dead time - if you get a job.
 Relax, take it easy.
 That is no vacation. 
 When you are sitting around panicking. 0:41:55.7
 Is that so?
 I suppose, yeah.
 Right!
 You wouldn't get caught with no job, no money, no nothing.
 But it is like another possibility. 0:45:00.3
 Like it looks unstable of something?
 Or thinking about going to Walgreen's and being a cashier.
 Somebody will want you?
 That surprises me too.
 Something or other.
 But somehow you got over that transition.
 However you figured that out, it really works. 0:51:00.2
 Will it work again tonight?
 They just come at you!
 You said: "Mmm!"
 It was so nice to get enough attention.
 Yeah. 0:53:42.2
 We should quit.
 Yeah, right.
 I will give him your number too.
 Probably.
 There are probably two of them.
 He was probably the first one I think.
 Right!
 Yeah, it is the dark-haired one. It was nice talking with you.
 That is nice.
 That is very nice.
 Yeah, Tuesday night sounds super successful!
 Yes, yes.
 Yeah, take care Karen.
 Bye bye now.
 Yeah.
 Hi, c'mon in.
CLIENT 1 (male): Hi. We're on time today.
CLIENT 2 (female): Hi.
CLIENT 1: Nice Day.
CLIENT 2: It is?
CLIENT 1: Going to be really hot which kind of sucks for us because we work on the third floor of a mill lifting things. There's no air conditioning. It's alright. If it's not too cold up there it's too hot, so whatever. Sometimes it's cool but not usually in the summer. You want to go? Start -
CLIENT 2: I don't know what to say. I don't know if much has happened since we last saw you. [00:03:33]
CLIENT 1: (sigh) I don't know. I think the biggest source of stress in our lives which is a major obstacle, or maybe even precipitated a lot of the problems we've been talking about in here, is the money stuff. It's just constant. It's ongoing. We're in a hole. We feel like we can't dig out of it. I very often think about the inertia or trajectory of my life and how I feel like if you're in a positive trajectory things keep getting better and easier; but if you find yourself in a negative trajectory financially it's like you just keep on getting further and further. You know, whatever, it's part of our natural discourse now. Just the concept of viewing it from one side of the equation or the other side and, notwithstanding the money that I eventually have coming towards me or the money Jessica eventually has coming towards her, her inheritance, just left to our own devices, I feel like we're really on the almost downward spiral of things. Which has born a bunch of different things. I don't know. I'm just going to make a general statement about this kind of stuff, because I think it's something we need to talk about; because if we don't talk about it we're not going to be united or on a firm footing to be able to do anything about it. But anyway, I think it comes from a lot of different things. [00:05:07]
I mean when we first got together we went into the bank. I realize it was a different economy then and they were giving loans to anybody. Anyway, I got a small loan pretty much when we first started dating so we could move into our first apartment together and we paid it back without a problem. I don't know how much support we were getting from home at the time. I don't think I was getting any. We were dealing drugs together. That was a long time ago. The point is we just had, this is like over 10 years ago but that's not really the point, I just feel like we have all these debts and we can't even work enough to break even, let alone cover these debts and we don't even know what some of them are. [00:05:56]
CLIENT 2: Well, we could start to break even by not spending money on frivolous things.
CLIENT 1: Frivolous things. I know.
 Okay, that's the logistical part of it.  So how have you been?
 You started.
 Oh really.  What are they working on now?
 Okay.
 So you're kitchen is not finished because last time they were moving your refrigerator around.
 Uh-huh.
 Good.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah, they're in your house five days a week probably.
 Sheetrock.
 Okay.
 So did they have the -
 So they don't even have the outside work done.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Have they given you -
 Do they have idea how much longer they're going to be there, they haven't told you.
 Uh-huh.
 Do you think another two or three months possibly?
 Okay.
 Where was this?
 Do you feel -
 Do you feel like somehow you caused her to behave that way?
 So do you think saying hi was what caused her to behave that way?
 Well, if it did -
 Is it possible that she was already upset before you got there and that you didn't cause her to behave that way?
 No, you didn't.
 Well, no, but you don't know what happened that morning or on the phone or -
 No but what I'm hoping is that you won't blame yourself for someone else's bad behavior.
 I can understand.
 I think if people treat you that way, you have every right to leave.
 More so isn't it, than it used to be
 Half of an incident of -
 Yeah, so that's another example of someone being rude.
 I know, it's true.
 And [PATIENT NAME] are you going around causing them all to be rude or is it just -
 [PATIENT NAME] did you hear, did you hear there was a shooting across, yesterday some teenagers were killed?
 And what I'm hearing is that it's becoming increasingly common for shootings.  Do you think those teenagers did something to cause that, cause themselves to be shot and killed?
 They might have but does that cause them to deserve to be killed, shot.
 I know.
 And do people deserve it, getting shot at the malls or at schools?  No, there are a lot of horrible things that happen out there, it doesn't mean that people are causing the perpetrator to do that to them.
 Right.
 It's becoming a lot more common and no one knows why.
 No, as kids we didn't.
 No, it's usually some, it's not necessarily smarts, it's not that they're necessarily mentally retarded, it's that socially they're restricted, they often have repetitive behaviors, they don't interact normally with other people.
 It could be, some people think it's a societal problem, some people think it's a biochemical problem, the truth is nobody knows why, they just know it's -
 Yes. 
 Yes.
 [PATIENT NAME], it's like, there's another newsweek out there that talks about the growing peanut allergy problem.
 There's a, for some reason, there's a growing number of people that are allergic to peanuts severely.  Some people even can have a deadly reaction to peanuts if they're in the same room with them. 
 And at the school, the elementary school where my daughter goes to school, they now have a peanut free table for those kids because they can -
 No, they don't have a peanut free school but they have a peanut free table in the cafeteria.
 Well, I used to, I used to, when I first heard about it, I thought this is people just overreacting.
 Until I found out more information.  I found out that there are kids dying from this.
 Yes.
 Right.
 It wasn't this common [PATIENT NAME], things are changing in our society, like you pointed out, not just peanut allergies and autism but rudeness.
 It's as good a theory as any other out there, no one really knows.
 Yes.
 I don't know that you're heartless.
 I think you haven't had much experience with it because in our -
 In our lives growing up, it wasn't as big an issue.  I never knew a kid that had autism or was allergic to peanuts in all my life.
 Not when I was growing up, never.
 It's really only been the last few years that I've been here.  Well, I learned about autism in medical school but it was very uncommon then.
 It's increasingly common now for some unknown reason and just like rudeness, rudeness didn't used to be so common.
 [PATIENT NAME], I remember just driving down the streets of [DEIDENTIFIED], people used to be polite, they'd let you in if you wanted to change lanes.
 Now, you're taking your life in your hands.
 But that's changed hasn't it.
 People have become much more aggressive in their driving.  Now are you causing all that aggressive driving and peanut allergies and autism and rude behavior.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Well or the way you were raised, children were raised not to behave that way.
 Oh no, we'd have been punished.
 Yes and [PATIENT NAME], you're not the only one that thinks this or feels this way.
 All the time.
 You're much harder on yourself compared to most people, most people just angry and upset about it and think what's wrong with our society that these changes are happening. 
 And [PATIENT NAME] again there are a lot of people that talk about this, how rude children are, all these changes, the difference is again that you tend to take it personally like you somehow are responsible and why is that, do you know?
 Right, but you were taught to feel responsible for other people's behavior.
 You were blamed for the way other people were so you assumed if somebody is behaving this way it must be your fault because that's what you were taught to believe, even if it's not true.
 I don't think so either.
 And [PATIENT NAME] yes that's a good point that people are the way they are, you don't cause them to be the way they are or act the way they act or think the way they think, you don't do that.
 Okay.
 Your daughter [NAME OTHER].
 Why was she attacking [NAME OTHER]?
 Oh, I think you told me this, you didn't give her the money she wanted.
 Oh, okay.
 That's right.
 Right.
 So this woman started attacking [NAME OTHER].
 And she hasn't let go of it.
 So [PATIENT NAME] one of the hardest lesions for you I think has been to undo that condition you got as a child to take things personally, that somehow you're responsible for other people.
 And you're getting better at it, you're not nearly as likely to take things personally as you did in the past.
 Uh-huh.
 So [NAME OTHER] reaffirmed with you that it wasn't your fault that she behaved this way or treated you this way.  
 Did you believe [NAME OTHER] when he told you that?
 Good.
 I understand.
 But [PATIENT NAME] they are important because they all tie together, the mean lady at the lab, the mean lady at the conference.
 I mean.
 [PATIENT NAME] have you ever gone out and bought a new car and all the sudden you start looking around and everybody seems to have that same car and you never noticed it before, why is that?
 Yeah, why is that do you think?
 It's because we start looking for it, we're more aware of it, it raises to a higher level in our conscious awareness.  The same thing happens with rude behavior.  If it happens then we start watching for it and we see it in more places, it's always out there.
 Right.
 With some people -
 Right.
 Yes.
 Unfortunately there are.
 [PATIENT NAME].
 [PATIENT NAME] when they flew the planes into the twin towers in [DEIDENTIFIED], did you think there was something wrong with the people in those towers that caused those terrorists to bomb them?
 They were just working.  [PATIENT NAME], I would say that they were no more responsible for what happened to them then you're responsible for people being mean to you, you don't cause that.
 And I'm sure the people in the twin towers didn't want those terrorists to be mean to them either.  My point is though that we don't, you're not causing people to behave this way to you.  These people are the way they are and yes, the important thing is for you to learn how can you protect yourself, how do you be safe in this world.
 You could have left.  Also you said -
 You also said something to her about trying to clarify what -
 Yeah.  You were trying to see, am I doing something to cause you to behave this way and she didn't respond it sounds like.
 So you were trying to clarify it but [PATIENT NAME] I think once you realize that you don't cause other people to be rude or mean or behave the way they do, you don't even have to ask that question, because you know you didn't do anything to cause her to behave that way.
 Well [PATIENT NAME], if that was the case, I would be disturbed right now, do I look disturbed to you?  Well be careful how you answer that question.
 I think I do.
 I understand but [PATIENT NAME] -
 If that was true, wouldn't that disturb everyone around you?  If you were somehow toxic and radiating out toxic. 
 Okay.
 So she told you she was mean to someone else, you didn't cause her to be that way.
 So she was telling you up front, this is who she is, this is her personality, you don't cause her to be that way.
 I understand.  [PATIENT NAME], let me give you an example, when I was a little boy, I used to walk to [DEIDENTIFIED] elementary school every day and our neighbors two houses down had this dog on a chain, a little dog.
 And every day I walked by and it barked, barked, barked, barked and I was always terrified that it was break that chain and come and attack me because it barked so viciously.
 And I always thought what did I do to that poor dog, I was just walking to school.  Sometimes I tried to talk real nicely to it, it would still bark at me.  Sometimes I'd ignore it, it would still bark at me.  No matter what I did, just walking to school or walking home it would bark like that at me and I was so scared of that dog.  Now do you think I caused that dog to be the way it was.
 He probably needed being chained up.
 So [PATIENT NAME], but I didn't know that as a little boy, I thought, I thought that dog didn't like me and he was going to bite me.
 Of course a kid would and [PATIENT NAME] that's what happened to you when you were young, you thought that people were mean to you or treated you the way they did because of you, you didn't know as a child it was because of them.
 How so?
 I'm sorry?
 [PATIENT NAME] I asked -
 I was talking to a lady yesterday, she was so excited, she's going to be fostering a baby, she already has two children, she's going to be fostering this baby who doesn't have a safe place to go.  Now if she gets angry with that baby, is it the baby's fault?
 No.
 No and she's very -
 Right, she can't help it, could you help it that you entered into these people's lives, did you choose, say I'm going to come into your life, did you do that?
 No, you didn't choose that.
 So you came into dad and [NAME OTHER] lives causing this.  Your dad didn't have anything to do with you coming into his life, even though he went and got you, he conceived you, before that he had nothing to do with it.
 Maybe [NAME OTHER], so [NAME OTHER] had nothing to do with it, she didn't have any say.
 And she didn't have any choice in the matter.
 What is she didn't like it, could she have left?
 Of course she could have.
 She wanted to be married so then she has to either accept what marriage is or not, that's here choice.
 She can and see I think she was mean on the side anyway, even before you got there.
 Yeah.
 Well -
 Do you have any evidence of that [PATIENT NAME], did you ever talk to anybody else that knew her besides -
 Yes.
 And didn't she have a daughter of her own.
 And didn't she have a daughter?
 And what about them?
 She was nice to them.
 So she treated them differently.
 Kind of like the -
 I believe you.
 It's kind of like the Cinderella story.
 The step mother.
 Okay.
 And [PATIENT NAME] why do stepmothers sometimes behave that way to step children?
 What is it?
 Right, so why do stepmothers sometimes treat stepchildren differently than their own biological offspring?
 Well -
 Some people do [PATIENT NAME], some people do.  Did you just hear about the story of [NAME OTHER] over in [DEIDENTIFIED] with the girl's school? 
 That the mistress was being abusive to the girls there.
 Was that the girls fault where they did something wrong?
 She was a mean person who was hurting these girls.
 I don't know the details, I just know that she was abusive.
 And [PATIENT NAME] there's some adults that just can be mean to children sometimes, it's not the children's fault.
 Well, with our kids sometimes but that's different than what happened to you.
 Uh-huh.
 Right, they do.  So [PATIENT NAME], again, the challenge here for you is to realize that you didn't cause [NAME OTHER] or your father to treat you the way they treated you.  They did because of who they were, not because of who you were.  
 I know.
 It's hard to sink, well, it wouldn't have, it wouldn't have happened, you wouldn't have experienced if you hadn't been there but did you choose to be there?
 No, you were forcibly, you were forcibly put there.
 It could have been very frightening there too.  I would have been, it was frightening when you were there at times.
 So both situations were scary and unsafe.
 You didn't have a safe place to go.
 It's the most important thing in our lives [PATIENT NAME].
 Right.
 Right, well we don't when we're trying to please other people because we sacrifice who we are to try to fit into their expectations.
 Yes.
 Right.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Some people don't, you're right.
 I understand. 
 [PATIENT NAME] it doesn't sound stupid.  Everybody I've ever talked with who has ever gone through remodeling said it's one of the most stressful things they've ever been through.  
 It's very terrible, especially when it's the kitchen.  The kitchen is the most stressful difficult room in the entire house to have remodeled.  
 A staircase.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 It's a lot isn't it.
 Oh.
 Yes, yes.
 Uh-huh.
 Any change is stress [PATIENT NAME] and you have a lot of changes right now.
 Yeah, well, and I think [PATIENT NAME] it's important for you to find a way to feel safe and part of the way to do that is to realize when you're not causing people to be unsafe.  In other words, there was a man that used to live up in [DEIDENTIFIED], he was a photographer and he loved photographing grizzly bears and he would camp out right amidst the grizzly bears.
 He believed that if he was just nice to them and not threatening to them, they wouldn't bother him.  Well, unfortunately, he got eaten by some of the grizzly bears.
 Right and did he cause them to come and do what they did?
 They were just being grizzly bears, that's what grizzly bears do.
 Exactly but often people react like animals, unfortunately, in that they behave the way they are because of who they are, not because of the way other people treat them.
 Uh-huh.
 No that's not your personality.
 If anything [PATIENT NAME] you tend to put yourself below other people.
 You mean who think they're better than you are.
 They tell you.
 Maybe you don't need one, maybe all you need to do is realize that you're on an even par with anyone else.
 Not better, not worse.
 Right.
 Absolutely.
 Uh-huh.
 It's you.
 Because [PATIENT NAME], some people use that competition to feel better about themselves.  They feel like if they win, if they have a nicer car or they know more about -
 Okay, or if they -
 Okay.
 And [PATIENT NAME] will it make you a better or worse person if you get a new car?
 Okay, good.  Now if someone else knows more about tea in China does that make them a better person. 
 Yes, so that's all artificial.
 I understand.
 Uh-huh, because when there's competition there may be a winner but there's going to be a loser.
 In terms of sobriety.
 No.
 So he makes it into a competition, he wants to better you.
 So what drives people to do that, do you know?
 Insecurity.
 Right but insecurity drives people to try to prove that they're better than someone else because they feel insecure, they feel less than so they're trying to prove that they're more then -
 He may seem like it on the outside but [PATIENT NAME] -
 What drives people to behave that way is that somewhere inside they feel insecure which is okay, a lot of us feel insecure somewhere inside, we just have different -
 Right, we just have different ways of dealing with it.  Some people respond to that sense of insecurity by becoming competitive and trying to prove that they're better than others -
 To try to make up for that feeling of insecurity.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 No and [PATIENT NAME] the nice thing is you've made a decision or a choice not to participate in the competition.  You don't come back at him and say no you don't have more sobriety.
 Drawn into a little bit.
 And [PATIENT NAME] you can but you can also learn to set a boundary and realize this may be his game but you don't have to play.
 Does it matter?
 Yeah.
 [PATIENT NAME] maybe through their eyes, maybe they think you should drive your existing car until it drops dead of 200,000 or 300,000 miles but you know what, that's through their eyes.  You get to pick in your life with your money how you spend it and when and if your car has 2 miles on it and you want to get a new one, you can.
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 This one person?
 [PATIENT NAME] what if some people are excited for you and happy for you that you got a new car.
 Well if they're not happy for you, what does it say about them.
 It says that they're -
 It says that for some reason they're not able to enjoy your happiness, your success, your new car.
 Okay.
 You know, [PATIENT NAME] I know that, you know, there's that message out there that we shouldn't be happy with material things.
 But the truth is everybody is, it's a normal human response.  If we go out and get a new car and get to go drive it, it's going to be fun.
 It doesn't matter does it?
 If I go out and get a new bicycle and I'm excited about having a bicycle -
 Or a new watch or a new pair of shoes, if it's something I'm excited about, I'm going to feel happy about it, that's normal human behavior.
 And that's a different story, that's either because some people are jealous because they can't go out and by a new car or they're envious, they want to go get one and they can't or they're judgemental and they think people shouldn't do that.
 With some people you may not, they may be judgemental of you and not be able to share your happiness with you.
 And [PATIENT NAME] you can be a nice person but it doesn't mean that everybody is going to like you because some people can't like you no matter how nice you are because they're incapable of it.
 No [PATIENT NAME] it's that something inside of them is so damaged that they're incapable of seeing you for who you are.
 [PATIENT NAME].
 [PATIENT NAME] I'm watching a TV channel about, on chimpanzees and they show this one mother chimpanzee, her baby died and she was so traumatized that she went off and she killed another baby chimpanzee, she stole it from its mother and killed it and that was the first time they'd ever seen an animal kill another animal of its own kind like that.
 And they said it was because it was traumatized.  What did that other little baby do to deserve that, absolutely nothing?  What did that other mother do to deserve that, absolutely nothing?  The first mother was so traumatized, it was almost like she developed a severe illness from the trauma and she acted abnormally towards this other baby.
 Don't know why she did what she did, we just know that she did it.  Now [PATIENT NAME] sometimes humans do the same thing.  Sometimes when humans are traumatized, they'll lash out and hurt other people.
 You probably would, you wouldn't lash out but [PATIENT NAME] other people lash out at you sometimes. 
 But you tolerated it, you haven't always fought back, as a child you couldn't fight back, it wasn't safe to do that because if you did the punishment would be even worse. 
 Okay.
 I think it is [PATIENT NAME].  I think the desire finally, for the first time in your life, to not just take it when people are mean to you and I think you have every right to protect yourself.
 No, you haven't.
 But [PATIENT NAME], you have the right to stand up for yourself and protect yourself and be safe however you do that and that's what I think you're starting to grasp but you really do have that right to be safe in this world and you really do have the right to not tolerate mean behavior from other people.
 I know [PATIENT NAME].
 I understand but does it feel good?
 [PATIENT NAME], we have to stop because we're out of time but I'm really happy for you because more today than at any time since I've known you, I've seen you start to shift out of that self blame that you have been conditioned to fall back into, to realize that other people's behavior sometimes isn't okay and it's not your fault and you have a right to protect yourself and be safe and that's a really really wonderful thing to hear you talk about that.
 Uh-huh.
 He probably didn't have a traumatic childhood that you had either.
 And good for him, he doesn't have to put up with that kind of treatment, he's a customer.
 And you don't have to put up with it either if you don't want to.
 Okay.
 Yes.
 And [PATIENT NAME], the safe place is not going to be out there though, it's going to be in here.  It's when you learn to protect yourself, then you can walk out there amongst the people and be safe.  It's almost like you need a suit of armor to protect you because if you go out there, it doesn't matter where you go, if you're unprotected, if you're like a turtle without a shell, you're not going to be safe.
 Right.
 Okay, let's keep working on helping you find a safe place, okay.
 A way to be safe, all right.  Well, let's see, let me just check, I don't think the holidays are going to affect our appointments, I want to double check.  Yeah, we're scheduled for the [DATE] next, does that work okay for you?
 Do you want me to put that on a card?
 Okay.
 Well, [PATIENT NAME] I hope the next time we meet, they'll be closer to being finished, very close I hope.
 Okay.
 What kind did you get, are you getting?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Great.
 Uh-huh, it sounds like a lot of fun.
 Good.
 Uh-huh.
 It's exciting and fun.
 Good, good for you [PATIENT NAME].  All right.
 Right.
 And it's nice you picked something that's fun for you that you can enjoy.
 Okay.
 Take care.
 Bye bye.
 You did, you put it inside your book.
 All right.
 Good.
 You worked for them before?
 (chuckling) 
 Sure.
 (inaudible at 00:02:55) 
 Yea. 
 (inaudible at 00:05:57) 
 Do you mean, (pause) in terms of the work that you do, or do you mean in terms of the how you and many other people would see or think about you? I don't know. 
 Yea. (pause)
 Yea?
 You mean more like, being what your work used to be?
 I think as you're talking you may be kind of like shedding (ph) from being more angry or bitter to being more sad and defeated?
 I'm not saying that they're not all there. 
 I see.
 I guess I'm imagining that partly because the sadness and sense of defeat being done too are more comfortable and (inaudible at 00:10:45) 
 Well, you had it there for a second—
 —with your line about how, "You know, if you really had to do that -
 —you could." (chuckling) 
 Yea. 
 Well, sometimes he certainly didn't mean well. I mean, on a small scale like when he threw your clothes at you and shamed you and told you had to stay home and clean your room. And then clearly felt guilty about it later and invited you out without really acknowledging what he did. Like that's not all about meaning you well. [00:12:58] Like that's not simply making you clean your room because he thought it was important for you. I mean, he didn't handle it like that.
 I mean, [you're like] (ph) -
 I'm sure other times he's lost his temper, that wasn't very well intentioned. 
 I don't mean to know just what you're saying. [Of course there is.] (ph) And I think that's an important thing of balancing out but [that's what I think about] (ph) the whole story.
 [It's all right.] (ph) I think you're saying that this or what she said or what wanted from you felt like a kind of disguised way of using you.
 Congratulations.
 Yea. 
 Yep.
 I see. (pause) 
 Yea. 
 That's the bitter laugh.
 I guess I wouldn't have imagined that if you could magically know that she would actually respond well and be able to do it for 15-20 seconds or longer, it wouldn't be that hard for you. (pause) 
 Right.
 I don't understand. What is it that—(pause) I understand that it's very difficult to talk to her because even when you're just out of the hospital or (inaudible at 00:26:11) or doing awfully, that conversation is going to about her and where she's at. It might be about trying to make her feel better about she's being with you or something like. So I think I'm clear about those things but I guess I didn't follow about where the bravery comes in?
 OK, that makes sense. It just sort of -
 (crosstalk)
 Right.
 That's starting to make sense to me. [00:27:02] I didn't catch what you meant about that but that makes sense. (pause) I would imagine that (inaudible at 00:27:15) 
 My thought actually—(pause) I know that the conversation after being hospitalized was that that sounds like actually one good thing that came from the hospitalization was that telling her—
 It worked. Yea.
 Is that the bitter laugh again?
 What do you mean by whenever (ph) she (inaudible at 00:31:23)? Like, every other weekend or so?
 And did your dad know that usually or he didn't and she would just be there?
 It's devastating (ph) for you. 
 I bet it goes back to her.
 And I -
 You have the love of your life.
 (chuckling) I can't imagine him being real punctual.
 Yea. It sounds to me like the way you—again like concerning (ph) that experience of them being late for you.
 I guess—(pause) my impression is that you remember and are very clear about what it was like with James and you remember and are very clear about it was when you were late. But you're much, I mean, sort of blander or flatter or about what is was actually like when Dan didn't show up. 
 Right. (pause) I think it's very hard too.
 These are the things that I've (inaudible at 00:35:57) this week. These are the things seem to be the way that you are around him.
 I wonder what could have come up?
 Usually your kid would be the one you—
 Yea. Sure, that I can see. I'm not—(inaudible at 00:38:01) being busy and having a (inaudible at 00:38:05) of a job and all that stuff, sure. But, yea, no.
 I wonder how much it had to be that way?
 (crosstalk) responsible?
 Right. I imagine you can't remember what it felt like?
 I see. No, no. I guess, so I think what you're saying is, what you remember really I guess and what was very painful, was knowing that you, then, came second?
 I guess [something else where meaning] (ph) as where we started today was with how you could no longer continue to operate that way where you're working for [somewhere you] (ph) came second.
 I'm not saying that your work itself was bad for you. I'm just saying you couldn't continue to focus on it and, for a long time, included (ph) that how you were feeling. [00:44:55] 
 What don't you like about it?
 We should stop now. 
 Thank you, you too. So [I'll met] (ph) you at some different time. Was it on Monday?
 Yea. 
 Great. 
 So on the one hand, you don't like it and you want to tell him that. On the other hand, that's his way of handling it, and you just (inaudible) to step on that or something. [4:01]
 This was on Saturday?
 But that day you were pretty angry at him? [5:30]
 Is that what's irritating about it? [6:19]
 It sounds like you're worried it might be going in that direction.
 It's not yet that experience, but it might get that way.
 There are some things about the - you said you had the same thing (inaudible) more the (inaudible) about him? And now it's different?
 It's almost like you're fed up with it or something.
 [I know that you are.] (ph)
 Then you don't feel (inaudible).
 I keep forgetting which track I'm supposed to be recording on.
 Yeah. So it's like you've definitely decided you don't want it, and he keeps pushing you and it seems to be less important than it used to be? [15:25]
 I guess I'm wondering where you are in that. I mean, it doesn't seem like - what is it like his pushing you? Or are you just like ready to say, "I'm not going to do that," and then have that be final?
 Yeah. It's just one more.
 Yeah. He's gone past you, and you know all the elements in it, but you just can't stop it or really do anything. [19:00]
 But maybe it isn't all so bad.
 So maybe you're doing something wrong. Maybe it's not all right to see all these little things. [21:23]
 Is it like you don't know where to start? Or you just can't bring yourself to do it? Or what? [22:51]
 Yeah, you're stuck there. Because if you could do something, it would be better; but you can't get yourself to do something and it goes around.
 It's like running away from a situation is really hard because you don't know how to get into it?
 So you'd like it to be different?
 So, if I get this, on the one hand, you'd really like to see a change and you might be able to do that if it were real. On the other hand, you don't know if you want it and you want to hold back a little. Even if you did want it, you'd be kind of cautious about starting it?
 That's like an unknown.
 And all you can do is just sort of let yourself drift right now.
 It's almost like you're sitting on a volcano or something.
 So things are really bad and you just don't know how to stop it, right? It's just there, and you don't know what to do?
 Like you just feel so horrible about the way you are, you have to look to them.
 Now are you saying he looks at everybody's problems but you don't? [32:22]
 There was something in that like you're pretty irritated at him for ignoring you, ignoring your marriage and going off with other people-you know, into their problems. Something like putting you off.
 So I hear you saying that you're angry at him for a lot of things and there are a lot of things that bother you. But you've just come up against a stone wall too many times. And like you're just pretty fed up with it. [36:55]
 Yeah. You're taking on the things in him that you didn't like in the first place.
 And also you feel a part of it, or something. And you're attached to him and therefore you're embarrassed, too.
 I mean, you couldn't get anywhere with it.
 And someone (inaudible) said, "You really respect him despite the fact that that bothers you, then that would be better."
 Then you can't put things the right way. You sort of (inaudible) out of you.
 So you feel like it's more of less subtle pressure from him not to talk about the things that you really care about?
 And it sticks with you?
 And when you're in bed with him, it doesn't have anything to do with the fact that you live together or love each other or anything like that?
 (inaudible) passed over. Are you saying that's where when you were growing up and this thing with your husband sort of cross over. I mean, it's something illicit, so when you feel. Not only that, but the persons involved just pass over it and you don't talk about it. And you're left.
 You've never been able to find answers. You're saying now it's like - I mean, you shouldn't feel that way. You shouldn't feel that it's dirty or feel like this, but you really do. It's just (inaudible) feeling.
 Because it's foreign?
 By definition, it is something that's illicit?
 Because (inaudible)
 You (inaudible) sex?
 (inaudible) But that seems like a trick for (inaudible) or something.
 If that would be possible, then that might change? That might turn you on?
 But you're holding back from it? [54:54]
 Yeah. You really know have (inaudible). You have those two sides (inaudible). On the one side, sex is really okay; (inaudible) and it's sort of groovy and it's dirty, it's illicit and it's fun, right? And on the other [that's sort of moral] (ph), and stay away from that. That's bad. You're really caught between those feelings.
 What if that if people could see that then-what?
 Yeah. And you would like it to change?
 I was just wondering how it feels to you now-to say those things?
 Is it like it's embarrassing?
 Because you have that? Because you have the problem? Or what is it about it that's embarrassing?
 Like you're just kind of crazy and weird? Not like everybody else?
 Yeah. That may be true, but it doesn't speak to you.
 Because on top of that, you can't share it with somebody-on top of already having the problem.
 But you're saying something like now it's time to work on that? It's gone too far to keep it inside?
 And just taunting you.
 Just that you have that problem? Is that what it is?
 That's what bothers you? Just that it's constantly on your mind?
 It's not just only that you have the problem, but that it won't leave you?
 You think it's time to stop?
 Okay, fine.
 Yes.
 Number seven. November 4 1970. Client 0324-006. Session number seven. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Okay. So it's like it doesn't make you that uncomfortable if you encounter people that you know here, it's just that you didn't want to be in therapy with them. Or wouldn't want to discuss with them. 
 No that's okay. (Inaudible at 0:00:41.0)
 (Inaudible at 0:00:48.1)
 Would you say it is possible to -  you didn't feel like talking. To come and not talk? To sit and not talk? 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Okay. 
 But is that in some way how you were, I jumped ahead and assumed that that's how you were feeling at four o'clock when you didn't want to call. 
 Mm-hmm.
 You're on the what?
 Like as much -  (overlapping voices)
 Like as much as that that energy that's there when you want to kill yourself you know hurts in whatever bad signs it has for you, at least it's some stirring in you. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Did something happen to, or did something happen to pull you out of it? Or did something change?
 That sounds almost like a psychological twilight. Like nobody was pulling on you to communicate but you could open yourself up to that moon. And like be with that. 
 Like nobody was grabbing at you. 
 Sounds like two things in there. One was just the image I get is, you know if you drive a truck or a car on one of those real rutty country roads sometimes you caught on the hump in the middle and your wheels are just spinning and spinning. And it sounded like in a way that's where you felt with yourself. Like oh, you're stuck in complaining, you're stuck in depression. It underlines it for you.
 And then I also thought I heard some feeling about, God what it looks like to just be that kind of person. Like what it feels like to have to have to present myself to, present yourself to me that way all the time.
 Mm-hmm.
 (Inaudible)
 Mm-hmm.
 But it sounds like you have the experience sometimes of turning around and looking at yourself and that's all you see, when you come away from here.
 Or that's what you feel like you've been doing. Just looking at that all the time.
 What I keep wondering about, and I always, I have to say I always wonder about this, whether or not I hear it, and what the person is saying. Like I wonder if you have some sense of how I am looking at you. Or how you seem to me. Or whether or not, whether that doesn't even matter at this point. To you. 
 Mm-hmm.
 (Inaudible) I mean just forget about it, or not worry about it?
 Yeah. (Inaudible) Yeah. Yeah and I really heard that, and I felt like I didn't respond maybe. Or I didn't convey a response. And I think it was partly because I didn't, I did hear it, but I didn't know -  conversation like that often makes me feel like, okay now there's a new regime of we'll go along, and that's that we'll go along in a new way. And like I really, I shared with you some need to maybe change some things or you know, lock horns a little more, but like I wasn't quite sure what to do in the moment kind of thing. So I didn't, like I didn't know how to at that point what a concrete thing I could do would be. I'm just saying like that's how those issues seem to me. But I did hear that. And like I'll try more to let you know, I'm not aware of holding back any feeling I had about you before. Opinion (Inaudible at 0:10:59.0). 
 Would you do that and tell me what that is? Does escaping into fantasy mean leaving, does it really mean leaving this situation? [0:12:04.1]
 Mm-hmm. Yeah. I think, there's something I keep missing. I'm beginning to feel like a blockhead. I sense that, I sense myself having asked you about a half a dozen times, well you could tell somebody about it, could you tell me about it. Could you share it? It was kind of beating me over the head. But the essence of this and maybe some other ways that you are, it means not sharing. It means no talking to anybody. Or no communicating. (Inaudible at 0:12:50.3) That's been hard for me to hear, I guess. 
 And you're feeling the pull of that now in some way? 
 That's where I'm, that's where I'm where I'm wondering why you think that. I don't mean I think it would do you any good, but I'm not clear why it wouldn't do you any good to try. Given that there'd be frustration and pain and risk involved. 
 Do you feel like I'm pushing you in some way to try that with all these, like I keep asking you what it's about and do you do this, and could you do that? 
 I didn't know if getting to you meant like it just felt impossible for you to talk to me. 
 To be on topic, you're questioning in some way, or like there's something that's not sustaining about being a psychologist. That they have [cornicion] (ph) and that sounds very intellectual in a way. But like there ought to be something there when you're not really in with the family and excited. Like that, okay that's good. You know that's good. 
 But there's something that turns you that sounds like it's both missing and other things that really kind of turn you off later about the whole enterprise or something. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 On things like your Rorschach and - ?
 Account on how you're going to get there. 
 Well it almost sounded like you feel you're involved with something slightly dirty or sordid. Sordid is the word I wanted I guess. At least the way you're having to do it. 
 When she says that it has a negative tinge to it. 
 One must be succinct then. 
 Yeah. (Inaudible at 0:30:12.9)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. It's like you're saying, look there are things I could learn, I'm not saying that, I'm saying that all of this stuff they're trying to tell me I have to do has nothing to do helping people. And I can see what from what you're saying why not going getting into practical lessons has been a very deep disappointment. 
 Maybe it wouldn't have been perfect, but at least it tries, or something. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Yes. 
 Mm-hmm.
 No!
 I will never forget I had some supervisor during my clerkship who I think was from Loyola but he might've been from somewhere else, but anyway. He, I remember him telling us, when I see three M's, I just copy, he sounded like he copied out of [Kopfer]. (ph) [0:32:08.3]
 Very concretely. 
 (crosstalk) And he'd look up and say alright when I see three M's and I really surprised I made it through that class.
 I just felt like vomiting. 
 Well, yeah. You feel like, at least I often felt like I was in a totally different world where I had several choices. One was to hide everything about myself that I thought was important and kind of lose a lot of self respect. 
 And another was to try to and express myself and have people go, "huh? Or that isn't very professional. Or what about such and such. Or you have to diagnose." I don't know what any of the other ones were but it's distinctly uncomfortable. 
 And think the only thing that got me through it was I knew there were limits. And I could play their game when I had to. Sometimes.
 I'm not sure I liked doing that. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 So how do I learn my own? Or no I wouldn't call it a game. I don't like that. For some reason game has a bad feeling. 
 Mm-hmm.
 You don't seem to be what? Growing old? 
 I know I hate that. 
 Now this nice young lady will help us with such and such a thing. 
 I now have such a nice wrinkle furrowed across my brow that I get away with. 
 It sounds like it, it's more than being trapped in a particular world that you don't see out of at this point, but it sounds like from something you said earlier, that this also makes you feel deeply suspicious of the whole enterprise. Like anybody who's doing any of it. 
 As far as you can tell, has to be doing some of this crap stuff. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 I kind of thought though, maybe it's not the same thing, I kind of sensed from yesterday, and maybe I thought about it afterward, like I kind of sensed that you were quite deeply suspicious of whether or not this was going to help you at all. 
 Uh-huh. But it's for a different reason.
 Mm-hmm. Okay. 
 It sounds like you had an intuitive feel for a lot of the dynamic issues or psychological issues very early. And like you're really socialized in that. Or that's just a part of you. 
 Because that was part of surviving for you. Or learning to have some order. 
 But like, so it's like okay I even have these instruments in some way inside me, I mean instruments in the sense you'd define musical instruments.
 But like how I am I going to -  Like God I can't even tune it up. Because now I have to learn it from scratch but I have no acceptance of it almost. Or there is no acceptance almost. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. 
 What doesn't work?
 Mmm. Like you're saying, you have to, that's all well and good, but you have to take some kind of stand. And that's what you didn't learn how to do? Or?
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. 
 (chuckles)
 So you're saying that it might be worth it, at least they're doing something, they have, they're not involved in this other crap. 
 They need to do for other people and they go do it. 
 Sounds like it's, in a way it's a very simple process. This is what they have to give and they can give it. They don't have to get quote, trained. They don't have - 
 But they don't have to get trained the same the way that you're having to get trained. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah. 
 There's something very appealing about being able to do that. 
 It sounds like there's something very defeating about your current situation. And you read it quite clearly in the sense that that's okay you've got all these things to do, but essentially you're unmotivated. 
 Or like you know - 
 Mm-hmm
 It sounds like you really feel in some way that it's very important, I don't know where I'm getting this from, it's very important not to do, not to assent, not to acquiesce, not to act like you were motivated when in fact you're not. Like that in some way is a very true expression of part of yourself. To have these incompletes and to leave them incomplete. [0:48:15.9]
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Sounds like you're almost, like I not only can't, but you suspect like it's partly I just won't participate in this. I won't participate in anything that's part of this system or something. I mean it sounds like it feels like you can't. And that you just, oh, turn over and go back to sleep. But it's sounding like partly I guess maybe the word rebel made me feel like, well it isn't just a question of not being able to, but there's some sense in which, I won't. 
 Is that conscious? The I won't?
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 You're feeling like you're going to have to trick yourself almost into doing it? Is that it?
 Mm-hmm. Like something's going to force the issue. You just can't, you can't stay hanging like this. It feels like.
 Uh-huh.
 It's time to stop. [0:53:40.2] (end of audio)
 I will go through my usual beginning spiel which is I don't have anything particular that I need to know. I'd like you just to start where you feel like starting. 
 So you meant for New York to be your away station or transition point and you...?
 Sounds like (inaudible) another job. [03:35]
 Does it still feel like though that's partly...like your coming here is an admission of that or is there something...?
 Like there isn't ...whatever you do isn't going to lose you more money or make you feel more alienated by whatever else is going on with you right now.
 One thing I was wondering about was whether you saw being stuck here in any way being stuck in New York and the various things that are happening that seem kind of negative, as like having any kind of psychological things; like are there psychological things happening to you that you think have to do with your staying here?
 Sounds kind of depressing just to look at all the things you can't do.
 Does that mean that before you were just kind of accept whatever was coming your way as being a closed matter?
 Yeah, it's sort of like before when you were talking about sorting of wanting to get your degree and that kind of thing, I got this feeling like there are these things you've thought about that has these steps to them, but it felt very far where you are now, I felt like there was a big gap between sitting here and your start on those and I didn't....
 How is that?
 I'm wondering, this sounds like a whacky question, but the way you describe yourself and they way you describe these, I don't know whether they're really plans or whatever that you see in the future, it sounds like, in the way you see yourself there's a very different kind of person from the kind of person who'd sort of methodically go through these steps to get into a profession or some kind of thing.
 Is there some...do you ever have some feeling like well I'm just not the kind of person who's cut out to do that or something on that line?
 Yeah, that gives me some more information because I couldn't tell whether it was kind of you felt like, there was one point in my career I felt like I had to take 2 years of very empty steps to get this feeling I wanted which was a master's degree, or I thought I wanted, and I couldn't tell whether it felt like that to you or whether there was really more of a sense of this really was where you wanted to go; you'd go through and get it the way...get what you needed and go on; there was more in it for you than just a bunch of empty kinds of things.
 Is it something about the way of life that's hard to step out or is it more like being caught in circumstances that then make it like more external like circumstances?
 It sounds like in a way that the kind of, or at least my maybe just a fantasy or an unrealistic picture of what being on the street is, that kind of freedom...there's freedom there, but there's something also very precarious about it, it sounds like.
 It sounds almost like you're...the image I get is like you're sitting here in New York arguing, or trying not to argue maybe with that man everyday, and without being able to effect it, it's like the things that are up ahead seem to get fewer and fewer.
 In yourself, in other people?
 That makes me wonder if there...I've heard like one answer why you decided to come here but it also makes me wonder if you don't bring a terrible, another edge of deep kind of skepticism where the pessimism about what you'll be able to do here, not what I can do for you, but just whatever the 2 of us would be able to do.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 That was really an inference on my part from what you said about looking around at the results of your trying to have a positive effect on things.
 One thing that makes it sound like what feels good to me is that you see this in some way as very much your situation. Like, you'll be able to make or break it in some sense. Or you'll be able to define the kinds of things you want to...anything you want to measure in here, you'll be the one who decides to measure it and how to measure it. 
 Oh, so like they'll be some sort of set of inner comparatives or something that will, well not only help you see how you're doing or assess how what you're doing, but also, I would imagine keep you going.
 We can discuss that. I usually just make the first appointment and then I'll talk about it, so it doesn't need to be if ...
 Sure. What would be the best time?
 Let's see. It would rare for me to come in before 9 (a.m.), but I can do that.
 Yeah, I can do that. 
 Yeah, I think the reason why (inaudible) [33:14] want to make it this time was that on the form it said that you didn't have to go to work until the afternoon, so that's why I said come in early.
 That's not very sustaining.
 What does that mean for you when you feel close to somebody who can answer a question like that?
 Now, the common question I'm getting is that some of these people that you thought were friends, you find there's this sort of element of convenience and arrangements and sort of using each other is what it meant to be with them.
 And the other ones are kind of slipping away and you don't have any way, not that you'd want to displace them, but there's no one, you don't see yourself making any either finding anybody, or making the necessary steps, whatever those would be, to find somebody that would be....
 I guess the way you phrased it made me wonder. You said something about my relationships with people and it made it sound like you wondered if there was something more than simply meeting someone compatible; that it wasn't just a question of this, is a city where you don't meet people or I don't find the right person, but you felt maybe there was something more to it than that, or not really?
 So how are you that living in a fraternity house would make me feel, I think, maybe like doubly outside of things because it's so clear the contrast between you and what the other people in the house are doing (inaudible).
 That's more like it's very...you know there will be someone, but it's very unpredictable who and you never see whoever it is long enough to really get to know them; to get to a certain level.
 What's your sense, if any, of sitting here for ex-minutes or 10 minutes talking? Do you have any feelings about it or reactions to doing it?
 Yeah, it seems like it's not difficult. I mean that what I said, it looks easier, whatever it was, to sound like what...it was just easy for you to sit down and rattle, but it looks like you're very accustomed to, or it's a familiar mode to sit and kind of carry your own ball as it were...
 It's like you didn't mean that the way it is now, it just like...wasteland was the word that came to my mind after you said waste, but...
 And this feels more like atrophying than wasting...there can be something very active about wasting time, and this just feels like, almost like decay or something.
 I've never heard that before.
 Yes, I think that's the sense...I don't know where I'm getting this that it's just...you strike me as a very active person in a lot of ways; in your head, in your ways of being with people, and that would be the kind of thing that seems to me that I would offer on the face of it, would feel would be a very part of the deadening sense; the lethargy, the...there's some sort of inactivity that's very draining or something of that...
 I think I mean it even differently from being doer or an activist; it's just like more of a temperamental thing or something. You seem very active sitting here and it doesn't seem to fit with how you...fit me to see you sitting day by day with this redneck just talking kind of wasting away. It's really what I meant by it. [52:58]
 I'm going to have to quit for the day.
 (chuckles) Well, you would think. Everybody probably is telling him what to do.
 Yeah. This isn't so good. 
 Is Ian still seeing a therapist?
 Okay. And it's not anything to do with executive functions or . . . 
 Is there any concern about him and ADD? I don't have reason to think there is, it's just speech therapists sometimes these days work on AD-related stuff. I hadn't heard you mention it, but if there was confusion about a psychotherapist and a speech therapist, it could be that. I mean he's not seeing a shrink?
 The reason I ask is that would be someone both you and Jess could talk about some of your . . . 
 Right, you're talking about the. . . 
 Sure.
 Hmm. Do you know what they'll be?
 Right.
 "This" being your living situation? 
 No. Oh, no no. 
 You had?
 A different one?
 Good. [00:15:33]
 She has the day off of work tomorrow? (chuckles)
 How able are you to work?
 But if you don't you'll actually do it?
 You could take a cab. I guess it would be a lot cheaper than parking.
 (chuckles) What makes you say that?
 So how much of your life can I not understand?
 Suburbanite with . . . I think you told me I probably have an active pilate practice, no financial or marital woes . . . 
 (chuckles) [ ] (inaudible at 00:21:11) Take your bike. I said a cab because I didn't understand what your reluctance was to the train because it's way cheaper. I assumed it was because it's more a pain than driving.
 It really sounds "I could take the train. I should take the train. It's a lot cheaper." I assumed it was the hassle. [00:21:50]
 Great. [00:24:35]
 Right. [00:26:58]
 And hasn't seen the dance floor yet?
 You drink because you're lonely.
 Oh, really? She lives in the area? [00:29:37]
 How have you been feeling?
 Distractions from what?
 [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:16) 
 I think she just didn't want to do it.
 Plus I think she wants to keep things as separate as possible between the two of you. I mean you do some stuff together for the kids but otherwise, she wants to be as separate as possible. [00:36:18]
 You mean like he's not tough?
 Occasionally I have the thought that it's easier to look at what's the matter with other people . . . 
 . . . such as your wife and son. Yeah. 
 (laughs) Good answer. Do you have an interest in . . . 
 Well, that's usually how it works. That it's other people's fault and if you can only focus on their problems long enough, you'll get entirely . . . 
 Of course it's not true. [00:39:52]
 Well I don't mean to be beginning the same thing again where this is what I want you to be focusing on and talking about.
 What is it that you want to be doing? If you're like, "Look, what I want to be doing is going off seeing about Jess and Ian pissing me off," okay. I mean you seem to be focusing on their problems to the exclusion of your own, but that's not an exhortation to look at yourself, really. It's a comment about what you seem to be doing and you can do with it whatever you want; or maybe it's like I said that you can respond with whatever comes to mind which I guess next is okay, Josh, what do you want me to do then; which then shifts things to being about my agenda for you. [00:42:04]
 I do certainly have a role. What is your idea about what my role is? To control where things are going?
 Can you tell me what you mean or to what end?
 I think it is an important point actually—the question of "who is responsible for what" here. I think it can be very hard for you to feel responsible for and explore things about your emotional life. I think in other spheres you can feel exceedingly responsible for things and actually weighted down by them; but when we start talking about emotional stuff, you tend to focus away from what your role in it might be or what may be going on with you that contributes to your feeling or interacting the way that you do. It's not my job to make you talk about that.
 Point to it?
 Certainly I'm going to try to help you to talk about it, asking questions about it that point things out, to say things that might put you in touch with things that you're feeling or struggling with, that's true. The desire to talk about it or kind of things that kind of get in the way, that's more on your side. [00:45:58]
 Yes. Absolutely. We have to stop for now, but we'll talk more about this tomorrow.
 Yep.
 [inaudible at 0:03], 1971, client number 0324-006, interview number 17. 
 Oh, really?
 Oh, no!
 You had [inaudible at 2:19] to feed?
 My God.
 Oh my goodness.
 Yeah.
 Say, listen, I do not know if this will help at all, but my husband and I tend to jump to the defense of animals. We might be able to help some if you need somebody to [inaudible at 5:33] hair or something, maybe we could work...we'll be away until next Tuesday, but next week I at least could. I could not [inaudible at 5:39] for him. 
 How old are they?
 Maybe [inaudible at 5:53]
 Yes, well, let's...
 [Inaudible at 6:08] responsibility.
 Yes.
 [inaudible at 6:42]
 Really?
 At the same place?
 Is that in addition to the hospital (ph)?
 No one to help you with what had to be done or anything like that?
 Oh, Jesus.
 Have you had any reaction to that whole thing? To your mother dying and what you had to do [inaudible at 10:40] disruptive or have you felt more like sort of numb and knew you had to get through it kind of?
 Well, I am just wondering like if...I know you said the [inaudible at 11:08] if it upset you to have to do that. No, I guess [inaudible at 11:13] I guess like people have reactions to their relatives dying and sometimes they come right away and sometimes they come later. For some people, they never come and that is what I was asking about I guess.
 Yes, I remember.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 So in addition to the sort of horrible vision that I have heard just lying there helpless, I guess you're saying you also feel somewhat responsible for it. Or in someway if you had done something different...
 Yes.
 Yes.
 I guess what's hitting me is that [inaudible at 17:48] in another way. Another way of looking at it is you know, how could you know when the right time was there really were not any.
 clear signals that would tell you know is the time or anything like that.
 But it also sounds like it was like in a way, a survival choice.
 One [inaudible at 22:27] that is hitting me that I am wondering if it makes all this worse, is the fact that you are the only one. Like, you had to bear all this responsibility and never had anyone to share it with. So the choices you made to respect your aunt were the big ones. I am not sure that last part was clear. But it's like if you chose not to have anything to do with her, there was no one...or to make and separate yourself somewhat from her, there was no one to like help you with that or to take some of the load off you. Right now, you're bearing the whole thing yourself. 
 At least you did have some contact with somebody.
 Yes.
 You know, it's interesting that you covered that because that struck me. When you started talking about the kittens, I thought, no wonder you're so mad. You had just come back from one thing where you had to do something really hard alone and you know. And here at least there's someone here and you're left alone with another large task..
 Yes.
 Yes. [Inaudible at 29:49] cleaning up after them?
 Just [inaudible at 29:53]
 So that was by the saving graces when we had kittens, I [inaudible at 30:00] clean up after them for the first X number amount of weeks and I sure appreciated that.
 [Inaudible at 30:22] really pathetic on that. I remember when we [inaudible at 30:24] it was all I could do to keep her downstairs. She was so pathetic.
 Yeah. 
 Now, when you do step back and look at yourself [inaudible 32:04] I am always so appalled at how absolutely nasty I am and it just makes me feel even worse. [Inaudible at 32:14] Does the roommate know how you feel about that? I mean, have you been able to say anything directly to her?
 Yes.
 But it's like the [inaudible at 34:23] the dirty, messy getting up [inaudible 34:26] appealed to her and she just...
 I know it is not funny but...
 It's just beginning to sound do... 
 Like you can see point or you can see that you do have reluctance that well, it's not the best thing and you might change it. But it sounds like there would have been something really, really not just concretely helpful in terms of all these puppies, but also, well, psychologically helpful or something. I mean for God's sake, it's going on right under her nose if she would have just offered.
 Do you know how you act when you're mad but not asking somebody like do you think that she probably picked it up? Do you think you convey it? [Inaudible at 38:32]
 That does not sound...
 And things are not that simple for you?
 Well, I hear you taking responsibility for what you may be contributing, but I also hear you saying...maybe it is just right now or maybe it is all the time...I mean, there is also something about her or anyone's sort of ignoring what's there that really I guess hurts them, and right now that makes you very angry. I mean, I do not hear you [inaudible at 40:19]
 [Inaudible at 40:43] It's okay, girl. 
 Yes.
 Why?
 Yes.
 Right, yes.
 I remember taking [inaudible at 46:23] in the autumn and one of the things that made me the most sad was that I was not able to appreciate the weather and that was just devastating. When I would go outside, I would just... Yes, and it is almost like you know, you can see that this is not the right way or it is [inaudible at 46:44] to respond but [inaudible at 46:47] at this point, it is almost like you do not have the reserves to try and work on it. Like, you go on and get these kittens fed, you have got to get to work and you have got to...you have probably got other things to do too. I mean, it just feels like you know, it is not a simple thing that can be settled with this girl in five minutes of talking...maybe not five minutes, but...
 Do you feel that is because you are angry at her and can not get it out? Or you know...
 [Inaudible at 48:20] Well, the reason why I said that is you know, there she is where you have to do a great deal...you are [inaudible at 48:30] right now. It is like it is very hard to make her into a compartment when she is not there physically. And the things that she is not helping you with rear their little heads three times a day. 
 Are you saying now that [inaudible at 48:54] you know, when they start eating and you the tension starts [inaudible at 48:56] to you that you would be willing to try and I don't know, work things out with her. I was not sure.
 Now how [inaudible at 50:59] you said, 'I get like this.' How do you describe 'this,' you know, what you meant by 'this' at that point.
 Okay, I would add another step to it or piece on it. From what I hear, it is like you react very strongly but you never [inaudible at 51:38] it is like you react to yourself. You do not get a chance to react [inaudible at 51:42] also inhibited which is, for some reason, that is the [inaudible 51:45] hearing me today is like how when something happens and you are really uptight. What you do then is like shut yourself off or draw yourself in or something. I [inaudible at 51:58]
 Sometimes [inaudible at 53:17] or work it out, I want to at least have a fighting chance you know, of getting something worked out.
 And if somebody pushes me to argue with them when I am really like enraged and seeing red or whatever, it is not effective, I am just blowing off steam. I am being defensive. I am...and then I feel bad. I feel like I never did have a chance to [inaudible at 53:36] or try to work it out when I did not have any other equipment I needed or something.
 Yes. That is one thing that you are saying that is probably one of the things that contributes to it being really tough is the business about letting him [inaudible 54:15] I even stopped and laughed once [inaudible at 54:19] this horrible argument with my husband, I [inaudible at 54:22] everything that had ever bothered me. I was so mad [inaudible at 54:25]
 And I mean, it was really funny that time but I just caught it because it to [inaudible at 54:32] but you know, I think that is one of the things [inaudible at 54:39] hard for me to learn to do. It is not one of those things...I still have not learned it though. And it is hard here because in addition to everything else, like you and Rebecca (ph) already have a history in a sense and it is like any attempt to solve a current... I think you have said this, but I will just say it again. Any attempt to solve a current issue has...it is very complicated because you have been with her for a while and I guess [inaudible at 55:12]
 Do you mean that sometimes you literally do not know which is which kind? So that...
 Okay but why isn't there a middle ground?
 Like which things it would right to bring up right away and which things are going to blow over and [inaudible at 56:45]
 Would this business [inaudible at 57:01]
 If you get around to wanting to you know, we could think about kind of trying to classify the things that made you mad during the week and seeing if we could find a pattern. Or if as you reflected on, you could sense one. You see what I am [inaudible at 57:47]
 I guess I am not really clear. I was thinking of I don't know, going to a day or two and maybe at the time if [inaudible at 58:00] or at the end of the day, reflecting back and thinking about, 'what bothered me today? What got me mad today?' And sort of maybe jotting them down and seeing if they fell into one class or another. When you have time to reflect on them. I don't know if that will be useful.
 Yes. You know, one thing I came to, I sort of began to rebel against this [inaudible at 58:36] tearing me up [inaudible at 58:38] and you feel like it. I was making decisions that it was perfectly ridiculous to talk about this one thing. It was not the time, you know, and I was going to sit on it and that felt like a terribly unhealthy thing to do. But I have come to the conclusion that, hell, you have got to. I mean, something you just can not bring up. It is stupid.
 And I do not always make the right decisions, but I mean, it is clear to me like if the other person involved is really, really upset, it is dumb to bring it up then because they are not going to be able to listen.
 Plus it may be a little more humane to let them alone for a while. I really chuckled when I finally felt comfortable with that decision. [Inaudible at 59:20] I get very mad at people that run around trumpeting about you know, all these [inaudible at 59:23]
 It is sort of very [inaudible at 59:27] feel comfortable suppressing something [inaudible at 59:35] Yes, I do not know if this is the week to start trying that [inaudible at 59:44] but it is something that you can think about. [inaudible at 59:48] over and over again and I find myself hearing this edge of things that you say and I realize that one thing that really does concern me and make me feel sad about you is not being able to ask the things that you need sometimes. So I realize like I often hear that as [inaudible at 60:04] I guess I'm responding to that now about expressing yourself too. And I you know, I may over emphasize it sometimes but it is something that I do feel concern about. [Inaudible at 60:27]
 So, hi.
 What should we not talk about? (Laughs.)
 I'm not sure I get that one.
 I see.
 What should we not talk about today?
 But perhaps you're feeling  - 
 When you mentioned something, actually let's start - why - I wonder about that, why it's not funny now, saying it to me.
 But when you thought about it before perhaps it was different? 
 Lingering or is it  - 
 Lingering to me makes it sound like it's kind of mostly gone, but there's still remnants of it still around. And I was wondering if that's true.
 Well, what do you have today that you - this is, again, the same issue that you maybe have things in your life that you want to talk about.
 So - 0:04:03.3
 But you and I discovered it at least one way in which this seems to parallel, as you put it, your outer life. What do you make of that?
 I guess what I mean is, given that, you're saying on one hand you don't - you didn't want that to be that way. And yet here it is.
 But it does feel a little like kind of a token acknowledgement. Like I'll give you that one.
 You know, I guess I find myself wondering if it's really an issue of praise here  - 
 Do we - (laughs).
 (Laughs.)
 Would that bother you if we had the same pants on?
 Well, I suppose it would.
 Yeah.
 It just struck you at an interesting time. I - you know. I agree with you. It would be freaky if we were wearing the same thing. But  - 
 Well, you know, I'm thinking maybe blue pants aren't so uncommon.
 What's that?
 I actually didn't intend that to be that funny. Maybe it was just the way I said it.
 Well - or apparently not - (laughs.)
 Yeah.
 But it seemed to me to be an interesting place to point that out. And in fact, I find myself even forgetting what I was in the midst of saying when you said it.
 Yeah. Red herring like a distraction?
 Maybe we were talking about something that you wanted to distract us from. 0:09:05.4
 You're sorry?
 I'm actually a little confused. You think you just stabbed it in the heart just now or about the blue pants thing?
 You did. You did, but you know what? I am wondering what was going on for you at that time. That's what I'm curious about.
 Yeah. 0:10:57.6
 Yes.
 Yes, I do in fact.
 It was very dark, but very funny I guess.
 I should remember that, shouldn't I?
 (Laughs.) 
 Perhaps that's why I don't remember it. Anyway, go ahead.
 Yeah. 
 And it was also a joke - little bit of a joke.
 No, no. Not only was it not offensive but joking is something we've noticed in here many times before - joking and laughing.
 Yeah. 
 And often when we're coming right up on something - or something's happening that maybe, as you said earlier today, you want to pull out that red herring and say look at this instead. 
 No, we didn't. 0:14:52.4
 So given that the birthday was coming up, you had pretty much anticipated this.
 Interesting. 0:17:00.7
 - in a haze.
 Yeah.
 Well, I'm actually glad you brought it up, because there is something I was thinking of talking about from last time. And I've been thinking about the ongoing discussions we've been having about how much - we might call it how much you've been bringing in from the outside or how much you can talk about from the outside and so on. 
And I'm thinking that - my thinking on that has shifted slightly to thinking that it's probably okay for you to talk about that more. I'm not so sure that it's so inconsistent with the model of therapy that we're doing. And I'm in fact becoming more concerned that it's getting in the way. Not talking about it is getting in the way of things. 0:18:08.4
 Yeah. 
 Yeah. That is - and you know - and perhaps - and what will happen when you talk about it is I will still focus on - it will give you an opportunity - my point is to give you an opportunity to tell me what's going on out there. Okay? So I can here that.
I'm still going to focus on how we're both dealing with that. Right? When it comes in here.
 Right? The difference is we'll be dealing with that instead of dealing with how we're not letting it in here, which is kind of what we've been - one way of saying what we've been struggling with up to this point, right. Have these big, long sessions that are about your not being able to talk about  - 
 Right. 
 Anyway  - 
 Well, yeah. It'll be interesting to see how much of a shift it actually incurs, right. I'm wondering  - 
 - how it'll be different. 
 Do you mean what's right, what's wrong to talk about?
 What we're doing here?
 Yeah. I am a little, too. But I think we're just going to  - 
 If that's okay with you. I'm actually  - 
 Does it?
 Yeah.
 Let me ask you a question, cut right to the chase. What's it like for you - what's your experience with telling me about this now?
 I meant just now. You were kind of talking about it. You were kind of talking to me about  - 
 So perhaps my - even my question to you was somewhat frustrating because you were kind of getting into telling it like a story, then here I am, "What's that feel like to you?"
 You said  - 
 You mentioned many times how much work this is for you.
 In some ways it would be much easier for you to come in and have this more cathartic experience, or at least come in and be able to talk about what's happening and kind of spin out ideas about why I do this. Why did I sleep with Cynthia even though I knew it was coming? Why after that did I - or something like that.
 But it's still hard to come to boot camp and get up for boot camp every morning.
 No, I don't think so.
 You're joking.
 No. No, but you're joking. You seem to joke this time right as I was going to say something.
 That's a real marker for you. That's your - what did we call it before? Your Geiger counter, your  - 
 It's like we're getting to something radioactive.
 Maybe it's not the topic? 0:30:01.9
 Are you aware of anything that happens between us in those moments when the Geiger counter goes off? Maybe it has little to do with what we're actually talking about. Maybe it's something in the room with us.
 It does. It does, but I think I must see it a little differently. Because - this is not intended to be a joke. It's going to sound a little funny considering the fact that I am supposed to be the therapist and you're supposed to be the patient. But I don't look at this process as work, or such hard work. So even your seeing it as work, even your kind of defining it as work or talking about it in that way, as you have often done  - 
 Let me ask you a question that I think is very - may give us a different perspective on this. Can you imagine someone who could come in here and find this process easier than the more cathartic thing talking about real life and that kind of exploration that you seem to find easier?
 You know, it's kind of - let me shift. It's an unfair question. It's a leap.
 No, let me ask - let me rephrase the question as a statement.
I can imagine someone else who can come in here and find this - this process that we do, this interpersonal thing in focusing on the moment and all that stuff - find that easier than looking back in their past or their current life and talking about it. 0:34:03.0
 And so what I find myself wondering is what is it in your experience at this that makes it seem so hard? This is like such hard work, such effort.
 Yeah.
 Okay. Yeah. That's  - 
 Well, it's interesting in fact that you're rambling, because part of what you seem to be talking about is the lack of what we might call structure in here or rules or things defining it. 
 Calculate is a good word.
 It'd be nice if you could map out your relationships on your Palm Pilot.
 But in here, it's harder to do that. Like it would be hard any particular day to come in here with an agenda of what to talk about because you know all of a sudden I'm going to go - 
 - start to say something, right, about what's that about or something like that. And whatever list or outline or whatever you might have had in the beginning is probably you're not going to go through in the way that you would hope or expect or whatever. 0:41:01.0
 Is that  - 
 Yeah, you know, whether or not it's a skill you need to learn, you know, I don't know about that. But that could be. I don't know. But maybe that's part of what makes this hard for you. Maybe that's something that's  - 
 Letting go in here would mean playing my game.
 Yeah.
 What seems to have done it?
 Actually, I don't think it sounds as weird to me as you think it might.
 No, I never met her. And even though I don't sign anything, ethically that is a definite no-no.
 Yeah. You know, it's a conflict of interest just like a lawyer might have. But that's beside the point. 
Yeah, I mean it doesn't seem so weird, actually, because if I understand you right, she's telling you all along be less like you are and more like this. And you come in here, then your impression of me was that I was more like that, that she was telling you.
 Right. Which you had resisted with her all along.
 And where's, you know, where is Ted's space? Can he know what's going on?
 And how to say what's going on. 
 You feel nervous?
 Right now?
 More nervous.
 You did.
 Well, before we talk about that, just let me say, I just want to say a about what you were just saying. You know, I'm thinking too that it is a good insight. But one I think that you really made, you know. It was you who said when I asked you about why this was work, why this is so hard, it was you who said I come in here and it's too freeform for me, and it's too, you know, right. 0:52:12.8
 Well, I'm glad I asked the right question. I'm glad. 
But yeah, I think, you know, you looking at something has - something about yourself that you hit upon and that can be a little anxiety provoking is my guess. You know.
 Yeah. Well you said something interesting about that, too. And I'm not - I don't know what to make of this now, but maybe this has something to do with it. You pointed out that the more she wanted you to be flexible, the more you kind of became that uptight guy.
 Uptight? Okay.
 Uptight is not a positive characterization at all. Certainly not.
 Well  - 
 If you would like to - there are a couple of things we should talk about actually. One is when to have our next session. The other is, can we - I just want to ask. I know your schedule's up and down. Can we think about having - I know we're kind of scheduling ad hoc, but nevertheless just a day, a week that we'll plan on doing that or something like that?
 Having this session even if we're scheduling week after - even if we're scheduling week by week. This sounds contradictory, but let me see if I can lay it out. Even if we continue scheduling session by session, as we discussed last time, can we just have a time that we usually - a day that we usually consider. A day like Wednesdays, for example. 
 Tuesday, Thursday, is that what you want to do? Let's do that then.
 So I can meet on - I can meet this Thursday if you'd like.
 Okay, sounds good.
 Yeah. I can't - I don't know if this room will be available every Tuesday and Thursday, but we've had pretty good luck at getting it. And if not, we'll be around here somewhere. 
 All right?
 Sure. I'll see you day after tomorrow.
 Okay, take it easy.
 I hope so too. Take care.
 Okay, so [PATIENT NAME], you were here in December.
 At that time, things were stable.
  know that there was some stuff going on with friends of the family, some things there but...
 Overall, things were going okay.  I know you were taking your medications as prescribed, working hard as usual.
 No problem with side effects.  Tell me what's been going on since then.
 Okay.  When you say...
 Okay.
 When you say you forget for a couple of days, are you talking about one day every so often?
 Or like two or three days at a time?
 Okay.  All right. Okay. You know, [PATIENT NAME], you're taking now three medications.
 And look I mean, you know, we have other things going on in our lives and sometimes we forgot stuff like that.
 It's not, you know, do your best.  I know you've been good all these years.
 But do your best because...
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 She's how old now?
 [AGE].
 Lucky for you.  
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.  Were they elevated?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Good for you.
 Wow.
 You must be doing other things too.
 No, no, I mean...
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay, don't know that name.  What kind of doctor is he?
 Okay.
 How does he help people out?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 All right.  Well there's a number of issues here [PATIENT NAME].  I think it's a good healthy thing that you're doing to try to lose some weight.  I think exercise plays a role in all this but there's a couple things with exercise and there was a study done recently that said that exercise made no difference as far as weight loss.  Some people, you know, because they're expending more energy, they're going to actually increase their appetite and eat more but the key, I mean, the key is changing your diet.  It's a simple matter of what you take in versus what you expend to burn and so, you know, there's a lot of different programs out there and there was a study done a few years back comparing, you know, the [DEIDENTIFIED] diet and the [DEIDENTIFIED] diet and all these other things, [DEIDENTIFIED] whatever, and you know what turned out to be the most effective was [DEIDENTIFIED].
 [DEIDENTIFIED] is a really good program.  I don't know if you've ever done that before. 
 Okay.  They've got a different system now and you see because dieting should be taken out of the vocabulary because it's, you could stop eating for a week and lose some weight, but how realistic is that and how healthy is that.  
 You really need to make lifestyle changes so that, you know, instead of having a big hunk of meat like this and a little bit of vegetables, maybe you should have a little piece of meat and more vegetables or, you know, eat more fruits and vegetables than, you know, processed foods and things rich with, you know, but so I think [DEIDENTIFIED] is the best program.   Now the other thing we can do as far as that goes, [DEIDENTIFIED] has a program and you're not taking any medicines that Lily makes but that doesn't matter.  Lily has a program that doesn't cost you a nickle and you can sign up for it either on the telephone, by fax, e-mail, whatever, and it's a program that they tailor make for you to help you lose weight.  You get on the phone, you talk to somebody, they talk to you about different things, they set up a program for you and it's worked out really well and the reason for this is that Lily made a, they still do, a competitor drug to the Risperdal that you're taking called Zyprexa.  You may have heard of it before.  Zyprexa is notorious for causing weight gain so I think that was a part of their thing to help people, you know, stay on the medicine but you don't have to be on Zyprexa or any other Lily product to be part of the program.
 That's a nice program.  I've had people do it and I had one guy lose like 30-40 pounds on it.
 Yeah, so it's an individualized program for you.  You fill out this form and tell them about your lifestyle and what you do and, you know, whatever, things like that and it's a very worthwhile thing.  It doesn't cost you a dime.  As far as the bypass is concerned, I've had a number of people who've had bypasses.
 And, they've done well on it.  They've done well on it.  One lost 100 and some pounds, one lost 85 pounds, one lost 120 pounds.  Last week I saw a patient who works over here at, I think the [DEIDENTIFIED] school and one of the teachers had it and died.
 You know what I mean.
 I mean, I don't know what the statistics are but people die from that stuff still.
 Yeah, exactly, right.  This one, I'm not sure she got out or not but within a week she was dead.  Anyway, you know, in other parts, we do the bypass more than any other procedure in this country, but they have in other parts of the world they do the banding.
 Which is more common in other parts of the world and that's something that you can remove and that's what what's her name had done, [NAME OTHER], on --you know, [NAME OTHER] wife on the TV.
 She had it done.
 Yeah.
 No, it's here, it's here.
 Yeah, it's just not as popular here for some reason.
 Yeah.  
 It is definitely safer.  It is more popular.  Some people don't feel that you can get the same kinds of weight loss that you can get with the bypass, but the bypass is some serious surgery.
 You know, it's no joke.
 You know, I met a guy not long ago, a guy in his 30's who to me seemed heavy and he was putting down some food pretty damn good and in the course of our discussion he mentioned that he had a bypass done like a year or so before and he said he lost 140 pounds or something but, you know, like this woman I see regularly, you know, she had the bypass done, after the bypass, of course she's a woman and maybe different but she's on her third or fourth plastic surgery.
 Because you know they've got to take up the loose skin, this, that, and the other, and so it's not necessarily surgery and that's it.
 And she said to me that you can, at the beginning you're afraid of eating because you get sick and stuff like that, you have to kind of wean back into things but after a while you start to, like anything else, you start to go back to your old ways and, you know, you can force yourself, you can kind of still make that thing expand a little bit and the worst thing is to spend that kind of risk and money, usually insurance companies are paying for it.
 But then to go back to the way you were.
 Because you don't know what kind of things you're causing changes for.  You can't take certain medications.  You can't take any time released medications.
 Supposedly, so it's a risk. I would say to you [PATIENT NAME] and as far as the pills go, these are things that are going to be kind of stimulants and these are things at are going to suppress your appetite so that you don't want to eat.  Again, it's a simple matter of, you know, you think of food as gas for your car.
 And if you go a certain distance, you need a certain amount of fuel to take you there.  The same thing, you expend a certain amount of energy and you burn the food to fuel your body so that you can do the work.
 So if you take in and if you're net zero, in other words what you burn and what you take in are equal, you keep your weight stable.
 If you burn more than you, you know, you need, uh, you're going to lose weight and if you take in more food than you need, you're going to gain weight so it's a simple thing of just, you know...
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Well you know, look, it may be, it may be portion control, you know, take less food on your plate, don't go back for seconds.
 You know, I'll take the time right now, I mean obviously I'm not a nutritionist but I, so for example if at your house, you know, you have three plates set for dinner let's say and you have the food on the table, you know, when you run out of food, it's easy to go and just grab some more and put it on your plate.  One of the things they say to do is don't have the food on the table.  
 Okay, so you go and put the food on your plate and when it's done, it's done, you don't go back and get seconds right.  The other thing is they say, which I could never do this because I shovel my food pretty fast, they say that you should, between every bite, put your fork down or your spoon down and chew it more than you normally do.  I don't know, that might not work for a lot of people.  The other thing [PATIENT NAME], is the animals in the wild, you know, they don't eat three meals a day.
 They're always foraging through the day. So I think, I mean that works well for a lot of people, is that instead of eating like breakfast, lunch, and dinner, you have maybe four or five smaller meals throughout the day.
 That keeps your appetite down and, you know, having food as a snack or something like that helps kind of curb your appetite.  Let me get that information for you on the Lily program.
 That's worth doing.
 [PATIENT NAME] listen, when you have surgery like a bypass, if all goes well and there are no problems and you're successful you look back at it and say....
 Hey it was worth it but there's a lot of pain, but is something happens and now you have an electrolyte imbalance or you have this stumping syndrome or you get infected or you die and then you say oops maybe that wasn't the best thing for me, you know.
 And it's real stuff, I mean it's a serious surgery.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, but you know what happens is, it's like you're connecting things together that weren't meant to be connected together and if there's a little bit of a leak, then all that stuff goes into your belly and you develop peritonitis and you get infected and...
 Listen, if you lose, if you lose, you lost 12 pounds in a month.  All right, if you lost 10 pounds in a month, in twelve months, that's 120 pounds. 
 Now of course, it's not like that, it's not consistent like that.  You may go a month and not lose anything but if you can lose, you know, I mean if you lose a pound a week, that's 50 pounds.
 Right, right.
 [PATIENT NAME], one of the people I saw that, you know, they lost weight just by cutting out desserts or just by switching from ice cream and a pie which hey is the best...
 To something, you know, a fruit cocktail or something less fattening. 
 Sure.
 Yeah. [PATIENT NAME] listen.
 You know, listen [PATIENT NAME], like it or not, you know, every day that goes by, we're older. 
 And as you get older, things start to fail you.
 And so you don't need to be taxing your heart to pump blood, you know, you know, you're wearing your equipment out, you know what I mean.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right, right.
 Yeah, [PATIENT NAME] listen, when I had my knee surgery for both knees you know, the first thing they have you do at the rehab is get on the bicycle, get on the bicycle for, I forget, half an hour, 15 minutes, half an hour, just to get things moving, you know, get your heart rate up, get things loosened up, then you do some exercises to strengthen the area but now the work that you do, you know, you probably don't need as much of resistance training but cardio would help you.
 Get your heart going, get your heart rate up, get conditioned and lose the weight. 
 But that's [NAME OTHER] you know. Hey [PATIENT NAME] I used to work with a guy that was about, he was wider than he was tall, this guy and he used to eat cheese steaks like they were going out of business and his blood, he was a doctor, and his blood pressure and cholesterol which like ridiculously low.  Hey, look he was lucky that he had good genes for that.
 [PATIENT NAME] I've got a guy that's as big around as your finger, uh, doesn't smoke, doesn't drink, um, and has high cholesterol and high blood pressure and he's skinny as could be.  So you just never know.
 One thing [PATIENT NAME] is I'm not going to tell you what to do.  I'm going to make some recommendations to you though.  Under the best of circumstances, I think taking appetite suppressants, pills, diet pills, we'll call them diet pills, is a somewhat risky proposition, okay, under the best of circumstances.  I'm not saying that everybody that does this is unethical or sleazy or whatever, but they have you come in, they give you the medicine, you pay for it.
 You're buying the medicines and who knows how much they mark them up but they're making a good profit there.
 But the thing is, the thing is [PATIENT NAME] with your, with the bipolar stuff, those are not medicines you want to be taking.  Those medicines will upset your brain chemistry that would put you at risk to have some mood instability.  Now, I just would think that, I don't think there's an emergency here.  I think you should feel, you know, you're daughter's getting older, you're getting older, you want to be healthy, you don't want to have problems, I think you should consider it to be a priority but I don't think it's a crisis that you need to be running around, you know, like a nut trying to figure out what to do and be radical about things.  I'd like to give you information on the program.  I'd like for you to continue what you're doing, just make some dietary changes, consider [DEIDENTIFIED] if you don't want to do this [DEIDENTIFIED] program.
 And I think that you should probably avoid taking these diet pills.  You know, one drug, that Orlistat which was a prescription drug is now available over the counter.  This is that drug that they were putting in some of these potato chips so that you don't absorb the fat as readily, that would be a consideration for you.
 Yeah. The thing is, the thing is that, you know it doesn't hurt for you to get the information but I would almost guarantee that's what the story is and, I don't know, to me I just think in your situation it's risky.
 It's risky. 
 Now, you know, huh, I just think it's risky.  Now you know, the FDA all these kids taking medicines for ADD and stuff.
 The FDA is coming down with new warnings now for risks of strokes and heart attacks on people taking those things and so that's the kind of medicine they would give you and so, you know, nothing's free [PATIENT NAME]. I mean, yo know...
 You've got to, you've got to...
 It's fun, it's good for you mentally and everything.
 You know what, are you working out too late?
 Okay.
 Okay.  You know [PATIENT NAME], I think exercise is one of the best antidepressants and it makes you feel good.
 Yeah.
 Take your time. 
 Like the saying [PATIENT NAME], it's not a sprint, it's a marathon for you, right. 
 You're looking at the long term. 
 Uh-huh.
 Right, right.
 Oh, you know what, I was going to mention that to you.
 Well, you know what, see Provigil is a, did it help you?
 Provigil is a stimulant that it works differently than the drugs like the Adderall and the other drugs for ADD and I was thinking that might be an option for you.  I was going to recommend that to you, Provigil because it's nowhere near as risky or potentially problematic in any way for you.  It's a good safe drug and beside sleep apnea which, it's used to promote daytime wakefulness, it is a good drug because it will probably curb your appetite a little bit.  
 Well, I have samples I can give you.  I can give you a prescription if you want that.
 Yeah, all right. Well, I could do that.  Let me see.  This is, this is the thing for the program.
 Uh-huh, check that out.  I think there may be some other, I may have to give you some other information on that, but try that.
 You've got all the information you need there.
 This is, I think, this is my information here but take a look at this, this is just kind of some of the things that they do and let me get those samples for you.  I think that's what we should do then [PATIENT NAME] okay.
 [PATIENT NAME], how much were you taking of Provigil?
 200 mg?
 Okay, take those and then we'll just continue with the other medications as we did before and I'll write you a script for the Provigil.  Try it out and see how it goes all right.
 Yeah, well it's good stuff.  You know, the insurance companies don't want to pay for that, but if you had a sleep study done and you have sleep apnea, they'll cover that for you.
 Okay.  All right [PATIENT NAME], your moods have been stable overall pretty much other than the stuff with your daughter?
 No instability and no...
 And you've been clean and everything's good. 
 Okay, good.
 All right.  Good.
 You're not out seeing people much?
 Friends. [00:06:25]
 Is it (inaudible) like E&G;?
 (chuckle) [That would be a clinical aside.] (ph)
 Yeah, it probably was. [00:17:16]
 [That's how it goes.] (ph)
 (inaudible)
 My impression is there are other things (inaudible) that want to help you.
 So to help you, she also knows she's helping Jess and the kids if it helps you. [00:18:08]
 When does the (inaudible)?
 Well you've told me sort of a combination of things like Ray leaving and Bristol Bank and it seems like they're having a slow (ph) year. And you're having a really hard year in a way that affected business a lot last year.
 With this where like once you have some business to send them, they're likely to start sending stuff back?
 The atomic meatloaf will do that?
 Are they...is it that they are a pain in the ass or it's hard to be putting yourself out there all the time?
 Take a while to get there. [00:33:54]
 Right, if not tomorrow, the next day, or three months from now.
 [Well in advising] (ph) you're...you're kind of in this for the longer haul. It would be great if there was anything you could do to make business materialize, (inaudible) but even if it's a few months away...
 Well it's hard, especially if you're feeling (ph) crappy, to put yourself out there of all the things you could do.
(pause)
 (inaudible) doing it, take care of yourself, proving your living or whatever, is a good thing. (inaudible) thing to do.
 Yeah, I was thinking that. Sure, in a way you're really far from being where you want to be financially, but on the other hand as I understand it, you're probably three good referral sources away from it. [00:39:58]
 Not that they're easy to find but...
 Sure, you also don't know where you're going to...which of the people you're networking with are really going to turn out to come through. I would think.
 We have to stop for now.
 (chuckle) (silence) [00:43:47]
 So I thought we'd take (ph) this session to get to know each other and I can answer any questions you have about the therapy. And why don't I just start out by getting to know you a little bit better, you give me some idea of why you're coming in for treatment now, what's been going on?
 When you weren't seeing anybody?
 And what does that mean to you not to have someone to depend on? You do have some sense of that?
 So you've let him in, sort of, with some of these issues?
 You mean coming home and finding him with another woman or...?
 Yes, so you have some sense or suspicion that things are sort of rooted in your history?
 Wait let me ask you...
 ...what does that mean to sense that as a child? I'm just not sure...
 That's what your uncle told you?
 But your mother, you've always felt that you identified a little bit more closely with her and...
 And how long have you been seeing Cole?
 And how long do your relationships usually last?
 Because you didn't... you felt you didn't want to be alone, or what?
 Another person.
 Can you give me some sense of what your experience is when you're trying to... when you know it's sort of over but you just don't feel the strength can you...?
 But you tell yourself, "I should make this..." "I should try some more with this man," or "I should..." 0:16:01.3
 Ignored your...? Ignored your...? Ignored...?
 Because Cole doesn't do that?
 And when you're spending money is there some sense that you're doing something that you shouldn't do? Or, you know, what's your experience when you actually spend the money?
 It was like indulging... It was like indulging yourself, splurging on yourself.
 And that was an in the moment experience.
 No, I'm not quite sure I do.
 Because it makes you look nice and people are attracted to you.
 Well I wanted to... I was going to ask you, wasn't it... what's your experience telling me all of us? What are you feeling? What are your feelings right now as you explain this to me?
 Can you explain the anxiety a little bit more maybe?
 What do you... what's your sense of why that is? What's the tension in your stomach (ph)?
 Yes. It's uncomfortable to tell me all these things.
 All these bad things about yourself.
 Yes. But sort of necessary so I can get to know you?
 Not to feel what way?
 Can you tell me the scary part?
 And the scary part with Cole is what? That he might not come through for you? I mean he hasn't always been able to come through for you or...?
 Right.
 What's it like to tell me that you're insecure and clingy? I mean to say that to me?
 So you're just... you're giving me information?
 Yes. You want me to know about it?
 Well, let me tell you a little bit about this approach because I think it is a little different than what the kind of therapy that you described in the beginning, or what you expected this to be. In this therapy we're not so interested, or it doesn't focus so much on the why you are the way you are, or why you have the feelings that you have, it's interested and I think it can supplement your understanding. But this therapy focuses mostly on how the feelings develop in the moment and so this therapy uses a lot of... uses this relationship a lot; the relationship between the patient and the therapist. And a lot of times what I'll be doing is asking you, what are you feeling right now? What are you experiencing right now? You know, as you tell me this, or as you're reliving something, so we get a sense of how your feelings evolve in a moment.
And I guess the philosophy also is that what happens between us, how you experience me and yourself here in this room is sort of a laboratory for understanding how you experience your relationships outside of the room. So again a lot of times I might bring back... bring you back from telling me an experience you had to having you tell me...
 ...how you're feeling. And I think I'll also be trying some little, I guess they're little tasks on getting you to be more in touch with your feelings in the moment. So yes, I guess the focus is mostly going to be on that, on really trying to heighten your experience in the moment, as opposed to just sort of telling me things, do you know what I mean?
I want to know, (chuckles) I want to know about you, and obviously I don't know very much about you at all. So I want to hear all this information you have to tell me but I think as the therapy goes on I'm going to ask you to focus a little bit more on your feelings in the moment.
 Yes. That's a very complicated question but my feeling is that feelings are very important... an important source of information that a lot of times people aren't very in touch with. Their awareness of exactly what they're feeling in the moment and they sort of behave in an automatic way, and so they bypass what their real feelings are. But ultimately these feelings are going to affect how you behave with other people.
Like your needs are to know that you're loved and taken care of, it's something that's very real and very important to you and it comes out in ways that you're not very comfortable with. They really don't... aren't the most adaptive for you, so if we can try to understand exactly what those feelings are about, as opposed to understanding that perhaps your parents did not give you all the...
 ...love and attention that you... Right.
 Right. But if we can, maybe sometimes-even experience it in the room here then we can get a better sense of what it means and how you can deal with it. I guess it's a sense of being more in touch with it to when it happens, as opposed to just putting it on hold and then having it sort of spill out in ways that you're not always comfortable with. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be taken care (chuckles).
 I mean natural feelings.
 Yes, well no, no, it's clear that you're not comfortable with the way you behave with Cole, or your parents, or the spending, it's just not something you want to do in your life. So those are the things we'd work on.
 Well, I am given a small packet of Xeroxed stuff your background information and your target complaints. But I didn't look at the videos those are just for intake.
 Is there something that you wanted me to see or...?
 What's one issue?
 What's the matter?
 So there's two parts to it, it's sort of trying to see it from Cole's point of view, which is you can see why he would want you to be more independent and less clingy and...
 I might be wrong but I'm getting the sense that you're sort of now giving me the other side of it a little bit more. Where you're sort of questioning Cole's needing you to be a little bit more independent? 0:36:37.2
 Is that what's going on with you right now?
 Do you feel like you have the answer to that question?
 So there's a bit of a split right there? Where you feel like, "Well I understand what Cole's trying to do and it makes sense and I think that probably is what I should but..."
 ...it doesn't feel good and there might be some resentment about it, is that...?
 I was thinking about that, yes.
 Right.
 Right.
 Do you have a sense of what the feeling is when you're trying to sort this out right now?
 An anxious feeling?
 But there's a sense that looking at, even this dilemma, the two sides of this is just kind of ugh, you know it's...
 (Chuckles)...I'd rather not, you know?
 Right. But there's a real like... it's like it's going to bring up bad stuff. If that's not right, let me know.
 Yes, you're working very fast but I'm trying to... I feel like I'm just trying to keep up here because you've got something on your mind now.
 And I don't think I'm exactly privy to it although I know you're doing your best to let me in on this but it seems like you're already thinking, "Well God there's this glitch in the relationship and maybe it's not going to work out after all." I have a feeling you're already moving to that logical conclusion or something.
 No, no, I agree but... 0:42:38.6
 So, I mean I feel like you're trying to already decide what your next move should be and that's not... I'm going to try to probably, try to keep you from doing that because I'd much rather us explore some of the feelings that are coming up for you right now. I mean you see because your mind is already, it seems to me, your mind is already trying to go, "Okay, well if this is how he feels then this isn't the way I want him to feel and I know that these feelings should be legitimate and he should accept them...
 ...then what do I do with this?"
 And, "Is this okay or is this not okay?" And those are the things that I think would serve us well to focus on but more... you could stay with maybe that discomfort of kind of thinking, "Well maybe Cole really isn't expecting something that I can give him right now or..." those sorts of things or problems. I guess staying with the discomfort of knowing that there might be problems or disagreements between you and Cole anyway (ph). I'm not quite sure what the discomfort [level is] (ph) but you felt it in your stomach, and just looking at this stuff you got uncomfortable.
 What's going on?
 Can you tell me about the numbness?
 What?
 Is it embarrassing [talking about it] (ph)?
 Can you tell me about the embarrassment?
 So you want to move to something else?
 Well, I feel at a loss too.
 Yes. 0:45:45.5
We can drop this; I'll be fine with dropping it if you want to.
 You guess you should?
 Mandate.
 Well it's just okay to know that you were uncomfortable and let me know that you're not comfortable. We don't need to figure out why. Maybe it just got too close, it's the first session and I'm not (ph) asking you to sort of give me a moment-by-moment account of your feelings, that's a very hard thing. It's a very personal thing and it might get too much, I mean you have the right say, "This isn't comfortable for me."
 [All what]? (ph)
 What's the fear there?
 Do you feel that fear now?
 [You keep floating]? (ph)
 You don't have tightness in your stomach?
 (inaudible at 0:48:27.5).
 We're going to have to [end the session here] (ph) but I wanted to know if you have any more questions for me? Or is this time fine for now or...?
 Yes, yes. I think in December, which I think isn't too far off, we might need to change times but I'll let you know plenty of time ahead. How are you doing?
 You're fine but...?
 Well I mean 30 (ph) minutes actually is a good period of time.
 Intensive because it is short term so that means that there's going to be more activity on the therapists' part. So they'll be little tasks that we'll do and I'll try to focus on as much as possible. So that's what they mean by intensive, it's not just that you can lie on a couch and (cross talking inaudible at 0:50:18.7).
 Yes, there are different types.
 (Chuckles).
 (Chuckles) No, no you can know it.
 This is called... this is sort of an experimental type of therapy.
 It's a personal experiential; personal meaning that we're going to focus on our relationship and then experiential is sort of that we focus on your experience of the feelings.
And there are other kinds, cognitive behavioral which goes more into your thinking, distortions in your thinking that get in your way. And there's a more psychodynamic kind of therapy that focuses on the kinds of things that I think you talked about when you first came in about, you know, why...
 Yes, what patterns are you repeating from your childhood, and that kind of thing.
 Experiential.
 Well, I was available, that's a big part of it; therapist availability. And I actually... usually that's the factor; I mean they say random assignment but not all therapists are available and you have to wait pretty much...
 No, no. They're not... no, they've all been proven to be effective it's just how they're effective varies from treatment to treatment. 0:52:01.0
So I guess I'll see you next week then.
 Wednesday at 9 o'clock.
 It was very nice to meet you, I'm sorry about the mix-up earlier.
 That's okay.
 Yeah. Yeah, yeah, no, no, I appreciate it.
 I see.
 I see. So, um, uh, then for future reference is it better if I need to reach you especially, uh, like during the evening or on a weekend to e-mail you?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, yeah. No, I appreciate it.
 Yeah, so what's on your mind?
 Uh huh.
 Absolutely.
 Mm hmm.
 Sure. [00:03:57]
 How did you find out on your anniversary what happened?
 Mm hmm.
 Really? Somebody'd throw an phone at you?
 I would think that hurts, like you could...
 Well, that's good.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm. [00:06:56]
 Mm. [00:08:56]
 (chuckles).
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 Yes, you did.
 Oh.
 Oh. [00:11:32]
 I see.
 I see. [00:12:44]
 Mm hmm.
 I see.
 Uh huh.
 I see.
 Right.
 Right, yeah, so you just have to learn each one.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 I see. [00:14:04]
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Well, I can imagine it's escapist in a way, but also I guess I'm...
 I guess also the thing like it's learning stuff. It's in a classroom ya know, um...
 ...which (pause) I guess as I understand it ya know is generally stuff that makes you feel...
 Yeah. Yeah, there we go. Yeah, that.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Adult ed?
 Huh. Yeah.
 I see.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I'm not so sure you suck at it. You are dealing with a lot. [00:19:40]
 Mm hmm.
 How long (inaudible at 00:21:06) ?
 Do you want to just rest for a couple of minutes?
 I think that's uh (pause) relevant. Um (pause), along probably most other places you work pretty hard in here, so I could imagine that when you pause you feel like you want to sort of relax a minute or take a break for a minute or feel like I'm tired. I mean, I think it's sort of important, an important part of your experience here.
 Uh huh.
 You mean of what you might say or do you mean...?
 Mm hmm.
 Right, like what you do at work. [00:24:38]
 I mean obviously really sad but...
 I guess you pretty much hate your life.
 Yeah.
 You mean Real Genius or Weird Science?
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm, right.
 Sorry, you can't...
 Dig yourself out.
 Mm hmm.
 How long does it last?
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Oh.
 What happens?
 Huh.
 Mm hmm.
 Oh.
 Hmm.
 I see. It's not the same as um sort of similar to like somebody with Crohns.
 Yeah, where stress can...
 ...um, cause like the GI problems that go on with Crohns.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah, it isn't just sort of like a hysterical throwing up, which is no fun either...
 ...but...
 Yeah.
 Not that I run across.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Hmm. [00:35:31]
 Yeah.
 How long have you actually been that sad underneath?
 Do you know what I mean? Like even if that's the place you, ya know, for very reasonable reasons don't want to let yourself go...
 Hmm.
 Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Sure.
 Mm.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm. [00:39:39]
 Hmm. (pause) Neither of you do.
 Mm hmm.
 Sure.
 Absolutely. [00:42:37]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah. Right.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah. [00:44:36]
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah. We should finish up for now.
 Oh, we should talk about a later time, right?
 Do you want to do it on Tuesday.
 Okay. We'll do it on Tuesday. [00:45:47]
 Session 12.
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 What do you mean? It portrays that like the bad guys always get caught in the end or something? I'm not feeling good.
 Umm-hmm. But to the movie - you mean in the movie it acts like it works, but it doesn't really work that way.
 You mean that things were all piling up when you talked to each other? [5:23]
 Um-hmm. But things were building up so that you had to do
something  -
 - to get the pressure off.
 Be easier; easier how?
 If you could what?
 Somehow that would release something inside of you? [7:54]
 You couldn't do that? [10:41]
 There's something within you that keeps you from doing that.
 But then in certain ways you'd like to be, you'd like to do that.
 You'd like to do that.
 Um-hmm. But to see it put out in a movie...
 Um-hmm. You could imagine yourself pulling the handle.
 Killing all these people. [11:58]
 But you could imagine yourself getting in positions like that, as him.
 Somehow they're there.
 There was something about the whole thing that made you very tense watching it.
 You said it's a hang-up of yours. Do you mean it's something that always makes you angry?
 Um-hmm. The guys who are supposed to be so good in real life, that are really so crooked underneath, somehow make it.
 But what bugs you is that in real life - yeah right, it doesn't work that way.
 Viewed yourself how?
 Like taking it from corrupt people anyway and almost doing a service in a way?
 Doing something that nobody else would dare to do?
 Well, that's not very far off, is it?
 But it sure seems like everything is going that way.
 That people don't even think you look like an adult?
 That it was so complicated? [21:00]
 And you're saying all kinds of things can happen to you, you're old enough for those things, but you're not old enough to even sell an engine.
 Like what?
 But you feel very messed up and controlled by them, so much that it doesn't even matter to you whether you can vote. [22:56]
 We don't need that freedom, do we?
 Because sometimes you feel that way yourself.
 But then the bank kind of represents to you some of the things that are wrong.
 So it sounds like part of bombing a bank, part of the satisfaction in that, was getting back at these people.
 But you're going somewhere where you can get away from under these laws.
 Because it's like you can hardly stand it, to live pushed down by all these laws.
 Do you feel disgusted with that, the whole process of the way laws are done?
 Like to what?
 Sometimes you think it would just be a tremendous relief just to blow up a building.
 You say that regretfully.
 It'd be fun to do it, but it wouldn't be worth the price you'd probably have to pay?
 Which story?
 (Inaudible at 29:54)
 But you like to see people get away with - like that.
 The fact that he would walk out defiantly, you mean? [30:35]
 Just what? [31:49]
 That sounds like a way you've got to live.
 What do you mean? It really doesn't have an effect or what do you  -
 You're going to get some of that hate, put it with you.
 You mean if you could get far enough away from it, out of its range  -
 So eventually it will die out.
 But now you feel like part of a victim of that. [33:56]
 What do you mean by that?
 That there's all these rules  -
 - that we have to follow, to live under.
 Even your parents' rules.
 And you feel pressure from all the dirty rules too. And that some of that hatred gets to you through those rules.
 It all seems so bad to you, it's a disillusion. [35:32]
 Um-hmm. When you say it's contagious, do you mean pick up some of that hate yourself?
 No?
 I see what you mean. You have to shut out everything.
 Okay, I hear you saying that you have to shut out that hate though, at least sometimes, in order to protect yourself from the intensity of it.
 You keep getting screwed by all these laws that seem more and more unfair to you.
 And you think the last thing in the world that I need is more laws.
 And they seem very self-evident.
 And you agree with it.
 Yeah.
 You must have been reading the same book I was (inaudible at 42:04) too.
 Yeah. In fact, it sounds like it seems to you another example of somebody who's really not doing anything being screwed all the time. [42:17]
 But it looks to you like he wasn't hurting anybody, and yet he really got screwed.
 It sounds like that is somewhat close to the way that you feel about yourself; it's like you aren't really hurting anybody, and yet you're really being screwed and it makes you feel bitter.
 And you feel pretty helpless to do anything about it and like giving up.
 You mean to get rid of  -
 The only way to rid the world of all the hate that's in it, you mean?
 In comparison with all that hate, you feel like a very small little bit of all that, like nothing you do could ever make any difference.
 So what's needed is to change the whole world, and you can only do a very, very small bit.
 Even that little bit you mean.
 You're disappointed in how you do that too?
 So even when you try you can't really make much difference in them.
 But is that true of some people that you are thinking of now?
 And you did what you could for him.
 And it seemed like something good, but then he was still depressed, and then you felt like you hadn't really done him any good.
 But what? [50:03]
 You think what you do is so little in comparison to all the other things that have happened.
 No way that you're going to what?
 You mean nothing you can do can make that a pleasant evening when she's had a bad day at work.
 So you feel powerless, really. It's like at the mercy of how her work day goes.
 You just have to wait and see each time you see her, what kind of mood she's going to be in.
 You can't expect a good mood and you can't hope for that, because you always have to take into consideration it might be a really bad day for her.
 So that means you can't be quite at ease whenever you really see her either.
 Which thing are you thinking of?
 You mean that it still feels like they're bearing down on you, like it's pretty miserable. [54:37}
 And that's a fairly hard thing to face, and still is?
 Maybe what?
 Which things are you talking about or who?
 Well, whatever it is you're talking about, it sounds like a very painful thing to realize or somehow related to I don't quite know what. But you are really alone in certain ways?
 I'm unclear of what it is that's made you realize that.
 So it's all these people who are leaving you.
 Hmm?
 And you see aloneness of it.
 You mean it seems like these friends and this girl, you were just very fortunate, as if by chance, that you were all (inaudible at 62:23)
 And that won't happen again, or very unlikely.
 I think this is time for us to stop.
 Thursday at 7:30; how's that?
 Good bye. [63:24]
 Good morning.
 Right. Your time is structured for...
 [So where are you working at] (ph)?
 (inaudible at 01:10) this one or that one? [00:01:10]
 How nice. That's good.
 (inaudible at 02:24) working there, you might see me around occasionally because I [do park] (ph) behind there.
 Sure. There are some spaces there that they sometimes (inaudible at 02:38).
 That's not what I was concerned about.
 (inaudible at 05:31) that was Sunday?
 (inaudible at 09:02)
 You start tonight?
 Good.
 Wanting to die.
 That is something in which you're more than enough, rather than a lot less.
 What happened? [00:17:01]
 What does that mean?
 [It's not going to work] (ph), yeah.
 Why does he feel...
 [You need] work to get yourself sort of emotionally up for it, in the way you're describing? Or, like, with the actual...
 I guess the way I understand it (pause) you're mostly (pause) probably sad and empty and sometimes you're sort of back there but you're at arm's length from it and sometimes it's right there. And it's pretty occasionally that you're kind of genuinely feeling joyful.
 From feeling that bad (ph)?
 For him.
 (inaudible at 25:11)
 (inaudible at 25:54)
 [You said] hating yourself? [00:27:48]
 (inaudible at 29:13) really disappointment first. And then it became self-hatred.
 You feel undeserving (inaudible at 30:00)
 It also sounds as though those sort of moments (pause) put you quickly in touch with how awful you're feeling...
 ...which (pause) is otherwise often there, but I guess at arm's length where you're not aware of it.
 Do you (pause) feel up to doing therapy? [00:31:39] I mean, talking about things that—already things you sort of don't feel up for anymore besides [I guess] (ph). (Pause)—I guess I have the impression that you're also (pause) kind of telling me that there are ways you don't feel up to this.
 Does it feel like (pause) you or you and I are getting sort of (pause) distracted, kind of into doing puzzles rather than (pause) paying attention to how you're actually feeling?
 What did it look like as a kid?
 That's certainly not the first time it doesn't make you feel better, yeah.
 Do you (pause)—I guess I'm smiling for a few reasons. First (pause), and this is fine. I'm not saying it's a problem but you changed the question.
 I think without realizing it, which is just sort of striking. I mean, I had asked about you feeling up to it, kind of in parallel with sex and work, which you were describing often not feeling up to. It's different from do you want to do it. Again, I don't need a problem for you to feel the question or ask the question, but it strikes me that it may be a different question.
 What do you imagine about me wanting to do it (ph)?
 About sort of in general, about your being up to this?
 I see. Did you hear—sounds like you heard my question a little bit (pause) as a kind of a direct question about whether you are up to this.
 No, although it does fit with your not feeing up for work and sex, so...
 I think a lot of what you're struggling with here these days is (pause), like, a sort of terror of being more in touch with how awful you're feeling and it's making your life even worse, which I think you kind of worried about one way and probably more consciously before James moved here and worry about (inaudible at 42:01) a different way and probably mostly less consciously since he's arrived.
 We need to stop for now. (inaudible at 42:16)
 Right.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 What's wrong with that?
 Mm-hmm.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm, right. For fun, not for interviews.
 Right.
 I'm not - for what it's worth, I'm not remembering nearly as much wallowing in self-pity, at least as I heard about it, as like major league self-flagellation.
 I mean yes. I mean yeah - I mean like beating the hell out of yourself pretty viciously. [00:04:01]
 That's true.
 Right.
 I know that's not (inaudible at 00:04:16) what you were saying.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Right.
 Like as far as the project or period, in Grad School?
 Yes.
 I don't know, you tell me. You're probably closer to this - surely closer to this than me. But I imagine what they really want to know is how you can talk about what you've done and show that you can think.
 You know, more so than they want to know completely about your thesis other than...
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Oh gosh; yeah.
 No, this thing is a nightmare for you I would think.. You would probably be nervous and feeling like you weren't ready and hadn't done a good enough job, even if you had prepared as much as you wanted to prepare doing this.
 Let alone hearing about it on the day of and having to walk in there cold. I think I can see why, for you in particular, this is harrowing and awful. [00:08:01] [Pause]
 Uh.
 I think it looks fine. I mean I think I know what business casual looks like and I think that looks like business casual.
 I mean I'm, you know...
 Oh really?
 I don't - I also have contacts and I can't see really that well
 I mean I can see them a little bit but, I would imagine people at the fair are likely dressed in Izod.
 Yeah. [Pause] You should be (inaudible at 00:08:58)
 That's an end function.
 Would it have made a whole huge difference. I mean an hour or more to prepare for something like this. Like if you had a couple of days to really read up on the companies that you cared the most about, I can see how that would have made a difference.
 I probably would have. But you didn't and you couldn't have because you didn't know.
 And you look fine.
 Go downstairs to the Kinko's and buy some. [00:10:00]
 Ten bucks. I mean it's a thought.
 I mean of course you're not going to do it the way you would ideally want to but like you're really fine under the circumstances.
 And [Pause]. I don't know, I guess, I'm not really sure, but I sort of tend to have like a haircut theory about things like this of which I mean like, you know, anyone else that can walk around after getting a bad haircut and going oh my god, I look terrible and awful and that kind of thing.
 But like anybody else, he doesn't look pretty much like us with a haircut that maybe isn't quite right or something, you know. [00:11:03]
 I don't know, maybe it's a little like when - it's got to be like pretty (inaudible at 00:11:09) interviews, right.
 I mean if they really care they're going to bring you out to the company and spend some more time with you.
 I see.
 Yes.
 Right.
 I see.
 To like show up.
 Be personable and not be a dud, yes.
 How might you be a dud? What are you concerned about there?
 Or maybe they will talk to you for a few minutes and decide very different from what you would about yourself that there are like plenty of reasons they would want to consider hiring you, you know.
 Each of the jobs?
 Right.
 Right. (inaudible at 00:14:34).
 You know I don't think we're trying to (inaudible at 00:14:37)
 What kind of company was it?
 Yes.
 Everybody else could hear?
 That's the guy?
 I see, yes.
 Wait, I'm sorry, what you didn't like about that job was basically it was a programming job. And thought you can do that it's not what you want to do.
 It's not what you find interesting?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Oh no.
 Oh really?
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 Oh god.
 Mm-hmm.
 And (inaudible at 00:18:41) issues too it sounds like?
 Wow. [00:19:00]
 It was horrifying.
 Yes, clearly. Do you like the work at all?
 I see.
 I see, yeah, yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Sure.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yes.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Thanks guys.
 What is - I don't even know what that is.
 Or even in Art History.
 I see.
 There were plenty of other things you could do.
 Well yeah, I could understand why you wouldn't have any confidence for this round of job searching, because it hasn't worked out the way you wanted it before, as often as you're miserable.
 That's (inaudible at 00:24:56)
 It is almost up.
[Pause]
 Well but...
 You were showing it. I was just saying it I think.
 (laughs)
 You got a substitute? 
 When was that?
 Oh. 
 (laughing)
 Sure. 
 (laughs) I think I understand. Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. 
 (inaudible)
 Right. 
 I see. 
 (laughs) Makes me feel old.
 "Oh yes. I recognize your name." Sort of way. 
 (laughs)
 Right. Something along the lines of just because you're doing something voluntarily doesn't mean you're not in a vulnerable position? 
 Yeah.
 (inaudible)
 Is there a Microsoft service table on the side?
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 I guess what I'm worried about is it seems like you think it's a pretty dumb idea. 
 And then you kind of—I wonder if the worry about people sort of flagging you or you being vulnerable has anything to do with the fact that no matter how sort of neutrally or diplomatically you ask, you actually think it's dumb. [0:14:31.5]
 I think a lot of this stuff gets you really mad but I think you do feel—even in here—like very exposed and vulnerable when you actually get really mad. Which I think maybe part of why you sort of present it in a much more mild way—I mean I think you're referring to a pretty significant corruption of the work environment which seems to me like that would be a pretty big deal. [0:20:55.4]
And your sort of tone as you present it—again it's like fairly mild and it's clear it's bothering you but I guess my impression is you're really mad about it. I don't know if it's madder than comes across to me or madder than you realize but I think pretty angry. And with the e-mail from the head of I.T. as well—I mean you sort of describe how he sent you an e-mail that was scathing that didn't need to be. And that where he was also clearly wrong. I guess—and then about how you felt kind of shut down afterwards. I think. [0:21:58.9]
 My hunch is that—I don't know if—. I can imagine three possibilities. One is that I'm just wrong. Another is that you feel angrier but you present it in this way because otherwise you'd feel more vulnerable. And the other is—again assuming that I'm onto something—that you really are angrier maybe than you realize about it but without being aware of it kind of present it in a more low key way than you feel it. I guess it would seem to me—the first case isn't that interesting. But—maybe it is. (laughs) But the second two are worth knowing about because (inaudible at 00:23:04].0) you do have reactions like feeling shut down or really unmotivated. Or maybe anxious at times. For reasons that aren't clear in the moment. [0:23:16.7]
 Uh-huh.
 Do you feel that way in relation to my reaction as well? In other words if I don't react in a way that's similar to how you feel it (inaudible) your doubt as well? [0:25:31.2]
 Uh-huh.
 Unusually so. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:32:14].3 to [00:32:55].3) I don't know. A few different thoughts. (pause at 00:32:56].8 to [00:33:33].3) (inaudible) I feel like (inaudible) I think more about it is you're saying, "Look if I'm really minimizing or whatever the reason—and it's because I feel vulnerable like this and exposed—that has to do with the state of the world. And my repeated experience of not being supported. 
Of not having (inaudible at 00:34:04].3) recognized at all. And instead, having people around be sort of randomly, weirdly antagonistic." [0:34:19.0] (pause till [00:34:32].4) And I don't know. Maybe that's just simply true. I mean like it could be the state of the world. But not necessarily all of it but where you work. 
 That particular—
 Yeah. There are sort of a few indications that there may be other things going on in addition to that. At least it indicates to me. Such as the way this stuff continues to surprise you. I don't remember a time that this was ever not true. That we've talked about work. And that doesn't mean I'm disagreeing with your perception of the reality but I think we've talked about this before. Like how—nonetheless it's surprising sometimes when this kind of stuff happens. [0:35:35.8]
Or at least the way you describe it to me it's vastly more often what does happen than somebody responding in a more supportive way. And I guess there are some other things there too that I want to think some more about. Like because your feeling of vulnerability and you're kind of, let's say sort hypothetical or for the sake of argument thing that we're talking about now, is the minimizing happens unconsciously. [0:36:18.2]
I don't—and that –. Again I'm not disagreeing with your perception of the state of the world out there but imagining that there is something more complicated than just reacting simply to that in what you're doing. Because usually when it's that it's sort of more—you know it's really infuriating you but you also know you better keep the lid on it. So you're sitting there going, "Uh, uh, uh." Or whatever. 
But it's not like that. It happens more smoothly than that. And without your kind of necessarily being aware, I think, that that's what you're doing is kind of minimizing and distancing yourself a bit from how mad you are at some of the stuff. Again that's not to take issue with how you're perceiving it but it's just that there's some way that's interacting with what's going on inside of you that's complicated and probably worth looking at. We should stop for now. 
 Next week. Yeah. [0:37:42.2] [end of audio]
 Okay.  Well [PATIENT NAME], how, how have you been feeling since we spoke last?
 It wasn't the, I'll say —
 I'm sorry.
 Well, uh, I really want to help you with anything that I can help you with.  And one of the reasons that we did a way with the Wellbutrin was we thought, we were worried anyway, that it might be affecting your bipolar.  So it really would have more swings in your moods.  Wellbutrin by itself probably isn't responsible for making you have a better libido, but at least it doesn't aggravate it.
 So I think what may have happened in addition to how much it bothers you about the sexual problem, it may be that your depression, the, the depressed phase of bipolar is starts coming back a little bit.  And you did say that you had tried lamotrigine or Lamictal before?
 Because probably and, and it's not as good, maybe a headache treatment as Topamax may be, and whoever is giving you the Topamax, probably better —
 Person to ask that.  But, lamotrigine might substitute for the Topamax and end up helping your depression better.
 So, I'm —
 Sure.  I'm going to write the name of it down and we, this is something that takes a while.  You can't just change over one or the other.
 You got ease off the one and go on the other.  But, I like lamotrigine and it's got generic.
 It doesn't have sedation to it.
 It doesn't have addicting potential at all.
 It's not a tranquilizer.  But, the downside to it is, it isn't specifically approved for headaches.
 Well, really neither is Topamax, but we commonly use it that way.
 Um, it has a potentially fatal rash associated with it.  It's called toxic epidermolysis.  Another name for it is Stevens—Johnson syndrome.  And we think the reason it happens is because people have to gradually go onto it and avoid the build up of the, of the lamotrigine in the blood stream.
CG: Oh.
 Well, if you think about a typical rash, you know it turns red and you get blisters and stuff.
 This kind of rash the skin comes off, like a burn off and there hasn't been that I know of any deaths in the United States.  But when this was introduced in Germany, was where it came about, they didn't know and it was actually an epilepsy medicine.  They didn't know about this.
CG: Oh, okay.
 Yes.
 So, you've already had the rash in the first place.
 Well, now wouldn't be the time to start Lamictal.  Be, because with us worrying about you having a rash in the first place, we wouldn't start with Lamictal.
CG: Okay.
 But, we have to sort out what's making you have the rash.
 And I don't believe that Geodon or mirtazapine or lorazepam has been associated with rash.
 So, I would hate to take you off the Geodon right in the middle of you feeling terrible —
 Whenever the least bit of Geodon protected you from a, from a flare up.
 Um, I'd be willing to try something else instead of the mirtazapine.
 Because we, we didn't, you didn't have the rash when you were taking Wellbutrin.
 And it could be that we just take you off the mirtazapine and leave the lorazepam and the Geodon the same and then put you back on the Wellbutrin.
CG: Which one is the mirtazapine?
 The ability to have interest in the first place?
CG: Oh no.  She does.
 So, good libido?
CG: Yeah.
 That usually is a medication effect.
CG: Okay.
 It, not always, but you, and you can talk to the doctor that's giving you the Topamax and see what they think.
 But, my, my first reaction is, yeah, it's probably the medicine.
CG: Okay.
 We need to start looking at my medicine —
 I'm going to change one medicine at a time.  We know you didn't have the rash when you were on Wellbutrin.
CG: Yeah.
 And go back to the Wellbutrin and tell [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] I'm want to try working with him on the headache.
 It could be mirtazapine.  That's entirely possible.  He's right.  It could be a drug reaction.
CG: Remember?  I told you —
 I know.  Well, we can look at something else to help —
CG: He's going to get you something else.
 We're not going to take you off of that one.  Never was going to take you off of that one.
 What I'm talking about is the mirtazapine.
CG: Yeah.  The one that took over Prozac.
 [INAUDIBLE] it entirely could be —
 We'll write that down as if it is mirtazapine.
CG: Okay.
 Because you did have a number of drug reactions.
 So, we're going to just take note that we will stop the mirtazapine.
CG: So, what was it?  Was it something in the medicine like —
 He's right.  He's right that it could be the Topamax causing both things, but if I was guessing, I would like to look at my medicine first.
CG: Yeah.  Exactly.
 Put you back on your Wellbutrin because you didn't have that rash on Wellbutrin.
CG: Yeah.
 And then we'll reassess whether or not we go to Lamictal.  I can send you home with some information to read about Lamictal.
 Yeah, but we're not even going to think about —
CG: Yeah, we just want —
 Right.
CG: And you have some Wellbutrin left in your —
 I'll go ahead and refill it.  Do you get your medicine 90 days at a time or a month at a time?
 Okay.  And it's mostly been depressed days over the last month or what would you say?
 That's been something though that's happened before?
 [INAUDIBLE] stressor?
CG: But, it's just something that happened.
 Did he ever have you do that Aveeno oatmeal, that stuff that keeps your itching down?
 What you ought to do, what you ought to do, because this is just a symptomatic thing —
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 It isn't [INAUDIBLE] with anything else you do.
 But, in the drug store, they have a box.  I think it's beige and blue color.
CG: Uh—huh.
 But, look where they have stuff for rashes.
 And what it is, it's a, it makes an emollient, which you pour it in the bath water, you make about four ounces of bath water.
 And you, and you put it there and it tells you how much to put in there.
 And you slosh, after you bathe —
 And then you slosh around —
CG: Okay.
 And you can do that two or three, four times a day and it really cuts down —
 On the itching.
 Sure.
CG: Um, I know, I know it's hard to answer why do people itch because it's numerous reasons.  But, you know, if you, if you sleep really hard at night and you don't move around a lot, does, it, it blocks off oxygen off at that spot and pores.  And when you get up it opens it up and air gets to it.  Can that irritate it and aggravate it?
 I don't know about dying, but you may wish you were dead.
CG: Miserable yeah.
 Now, where was your source, where was your source on that one?
 [INAUDIBLE] mention the cure being worse than the disease.
 Well, I can —
 Here's the thing.  Obviously, right now —
 Your nervous system is not doing well.
CG: Yeah.  Yeah.
 Insomnia.
CG: Yeah.
 Or low sexual response.
 So, let's work on that.
CG: Okay.
 Um—hum
CG: You know those —
 Yes.
CG: Is there something like that for a woman?
 I really think it's because when women have a limited period of time —
CG: Yeah.
 Then, it's just both individuals making it harder to kill when something bad happens.
 So, so, I tell people the women's magazines make women feel terribly inadequate.
CG: Yeah.
 You don't feel like hurting yourself?
 You haven't done anything to hurt yourself or maybe plan to hurt yourself?
 Have you had hopelessness as this has gone along or not?
 You do not believe people are against you?
 You don't have any kind of disturbing thoughts of any kind that are out of the ordinary?
 You know where you are and who you are?
 You're not affecting your memory or concentration any of those areas?
 But, you are feeling depressed more days than not —
 Since we visited the last time?
 Is your anxiety level changed or is it about the same?
 Those do go hand in hand.
CG: Yeah.  Exactly.
 Okay.
 No disinhibition?  You're not losing control of yourself and getting agitated —
 Anger outbursts?
 Spend too much money?
 Doing things out of control or nothing like that?
 Well, we all do.
 Um—hum.
 Release of frustration.
 Uh, are you having any diabetes symptoms?
 Excessive thirst?  Excessive hunger?
 Okay.  We need to, the sugar was perfect.  We need to, let see if I can get [NAME OTHER] to check on, I guess I got a C—peptide, a fasting C—peptide.  Could you check with the lab and see if they ever got that C—peptide test we were waiting on, [PATIENT NAME]?  It's, uh, the medical center lab in [DEIDENTIFIED].  It's, uh, [DEIDENTIFIED].  All right.  Thanks.  She'll call up and see what it shows.
CG: What does that do?
 You've had it or the people in your family?
 But, it cleared up and you don't have the symptoms anymore?
 Yeah.  There was no family that had diabetes?
 Mother's diabetic?
 Mother's side or father's side?
 Well, of the medicines we use of this type, Geodon has one of the least likely chances to bring about diabetes.
CG: Okay.
 But, I definitely think it helped as far as your mind going around and around the rest of the thoughts.
 Those type of things.
 Good.
 I was looking back to see.  Didn't you tell me you at one point had heard a man's voice?
 Had the voice saying "jump out of the car" and —
 And that hasn't happen?  You don't have any kind of command, hallucinations?
 Okay.  You did have one?
 What happened on that?
 We're going to watch and see what happens with the Geodon.
CG: Okay.
 And this time you're a lot better on helping us and cooperating with us about, "I'm going to jump into the middle of this and we're going to get things right" like they're supposed to be.
CG: Takes time.
 Emotional.  That's all right.  Emotional instability and mood swings and what all that means.  Now, are you extra careful about taking Geodon with food?  Remember that —
 Five hundred calories.
 That's pretty much a sandwich.
 You know how the study was, I found out, I just attended a [INAUDIBLE] this week.  You know how they did the study?
 They were, they were, had the people ate lots of different kinds of forms of food.
CG: Um—hum.
 Yeah.  Something like that.
 Eggs, bacon, toast.  You know —
 Something like that and, uh, I guess a juice drink and that was —
 More than 500 calories.  I was pretty impressed when they told us that.
CG: Uh—huh.
 Um—hum.  Right there, [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] wrote that little green book there.  That's one of the, he's called a psychopharmacologist.
CG: Hum.
 Well, any questions about what our plan is?
 I'm going to write out the instructions because sometimes when you get upset, it's kind of hard to remember what all we're going to do.
 We're going to write out how we're going to do this.
CG: Okay.
 Any pharmacy has these.  I've seen them.  I looked around myself at times.  [NAME OTHER] got poison ivy one time.
CG: Oh no.
 Okay.
CG: I would.  [INAUDIBLE].
 Any questions about what we're going to do?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah.  We're going to resume the Wellbutrin.  We're going to stop, in fact, I need to write that and be real clear about it.  Stop mirtazapine.
CG: Okay.  She don't have any more of it.
 Well, just in case.  If you get home and forgot that, I thought I had another medicine.
CG: Oh okay.
 Leave the lorazepam and Geodon the same.
 That's going to —
 Yeah.  Yeah.
 They won't refill it without me telling them.
 And, uh, [NAME OTHER] will help you if we don't have that test, I'll get it to you when I do.  Because the information on there would be about the, uh, the labs —
CG: Okay.  Okay.
 You seem kind of quiet.
 Yes. Not too bad. 
 Three minutes.
 Yes, yes. 
 Yes.
 So that worked out.
 Yeah, they're changing the floor in there.
 Right. 
 It is your fault.
 How did you feel at that moment? [0:09:10]
 Doomed. 
 What was her reaction? After the fall? [0:11:26]
 Was she upset at you?
 It shook her up.
 How did you respond to that?
 Do you remember how you felt?
 What do you mean?
 So like performance anxiety?"
 Yes, I realize it is very loud. 
 What did she actually say?
 Belittling?
 And when you tried to justify...
 What stops you from saying, "Don't talk to me in that tone, it was a decision that I thought was right, don't talk to me like that."
 OK.
 Yes.
 Dangerous. What do you mean by dangerous?
 Sounds like you're responsible for putting her in peril.
 What are you feeling?
 Yeah. Stay with that feeling right now.
 Right. Stay with you feeling sad right now.
 And that made you feel...
 So she must be right. 
 How does it feel talking about this right now with me here?
 You just sort of come to the conclusion in a way.
 And hopefully that will confirm the conclusion?
 In the meantime.
 Something helpful.
 Something to prove that you're not a waste.
 What's going on for you now?
 Right.
 This is another example of...
 I'm going to ask you to try a little exercise that is a little different than what we did last time. I'd like you to close your eyes and play, I don't know how difficult that will be for you, but play your really critical side. What would you say to Tom right now strictly from your critical side?
 It triggers hope?
 Why?
 What did you mean "obstinate?"
 Do you have a sense of feeling anxious about those, uncomfortable?
 Is the anxiety about doing it right or...
 So when you say performance anxiety, you are always performing in front of an audience. And in this case I'm the audience.
 So you want to do right by me. 
 So just to bring it back to this situation again, let's take it one step further, there's a sense that you don't want to disappoint me.
 Life sort of got in the way.
 [inaudible0:32:06]
 How do you feel when you think about that right now?
 That you're really stuck.
 I don't mean to not talk about it, but I'm also really aware that we kind of shifted away from what we were doing and I wonder if you're aware of that happening or how that happened?
 Yes.
 That's sort of like coming up with a new plan.
 To get away from sort of looking at yourself.
 But there's something about always running away instead of running toward something. It is almost like you're always running away from this negative image. Always doing a project to overcome this negative image.
 [inaudible 0:35:54]
 So that doesn't seem very constructive.
 So you have some misgivings about actually doing this kind of exercise?
 Mixed feelings?
 Can you express that to me in a more direct fashion?
 So it feels really resolved in some way for you?
 Why am I doing this?
 And you don't see any benefits, you just see pain by doing this.
 So in the same sense this exercise here doesn't seem useful to you, apparently? [0:40:37]
 The cost is outweighing the benefits.
 Right.
 I'm sort of confused because on one hand I get the sense that there's a part of you that doesn't want to do this. But I got kind of lost in terms of that. Can you clarify that?
 How did it feel to actually say that to me?
 The reaction, you're apologetic. Very uncomfortable with this sort of thing, "I didn't find that useful."
 Mmhmm. [0:43:17]
 Right, right. 
 Now you're trying to be self-critical.
 But, you know, the point here is that you have a right to express that. 
 Whatever they may be.
 Yes.
 The marriage?
 Yes.
 It depends on the niche that you're talking about, the market that you're working in.
 Right.
 And you think that's bad?
 I just want to give a focus to this session, something for you to think about. I want you over the week how to track how your criticism gets in the way of self-asserting. Allowing you to say something. Depriving you of the right to say something. Whether you understand the situation or not, or whether you're right or wrong, that is almost irrelevant. You do have a right to express your feelings, and you do have right to protect yourself from being belittled.
 You have to write it in yours.[0:49:17]
 You know we saw it in this session the small way that you couldn't tell me that you disagreed or that you didn't find something useful. You struggled with it.
 Well, it is subtle. But that's the whole point of what we're doing, to make the subtle explicit. Make the input explicit. That's why I asked you to track it during the week so that it becomes more explicit. And as it becomes more explicit it gives you the ability to do something about it. 
 What do you think? What do you think you can do when you become more aware?
 Well it is not necessarily that you manipulate people. What could you do?
 [Laughter]
 Well let's take up with this next time.
 Think about it and then...
 Well you're very creative there. That is actually a good example how there is no shortage of solutions when it comes to that. 
 I have great faith, I think that you're a very creative person so; I think you know that on some level as well.
 Some emotional blocks not allowing you to come up with [inaudible0:51:50] here... but to be continued.
 Sure, sure. I don't know why that doesn't surprise me... [chuckles]
 Let's nip that one in the bud.
 Well...
 I peaked out a little before. Had you been sitting there long?
 Oh, that's when I missed you then.
 Hi. How are you doing?
 I'm fine. (laughter) What should we talk about?
 Stressed out.
 So there's something about your prevalent state that's -
 You don't have tolerance for that.
 What's that?
 Do you vocalize it? Do you kind of say, "What are you doing?"
 Yes. (pause) So crushes are a little over-determined for me.
 I'm - I don't know. I'm sort of like, I'm listening to you as what you're saying and I'm also wondering. I'm acting like such a therapist. (laughter) But I'm wondering if that has anything to do with us.
 I don't know either yet. We can see. I'm kind of - yes. Right.
 Little things are stressing you out?
 Yes.
 But what make of - what's going on with you that you that you're easily stressed out and feel bitchy? What - do you have a sense of what it's about?
 Depressed and anxious at the same time?
 Let me - I'm going to - I'm afraid I might be forcing something. But I'm just going to put this out and you can see - see if it fits at all because this is kind of a shot in the dark. But the story you're saying about that guy, the homemaker who jumps in bed with the kid to take a nap. Are you at all concerned about, sort of being able to keep appropriate boundaries in here given some of the - given what you were talking about?
 So it's not like that?
 You see it's - there's an intellectual connection there but I don't know if it rings true to you. And so -
 Okay.
 Right.
 Right.
 Or where to next? (pause)
 (laughter) Are you performing for - and -
 In the silence, yes.
 How's it feel to sit here and not talk about it? It feels a little different to me. Does it feel different to you?
 Yes. I mean from times in the past.
 How is different for you?
 Where the teenager and them were napping.
 You mean she - the cancer is really taken its toll?
 What was that like for you? I mean, what were some of the feelings that it evoked?
 Did you have a reaction or did you not really have one?
 Yes. I mean it's obviously very evocative for you. Your mother died of cancer. You're working with patients who are dying of cancer.
 So what's that tying to in you - when someone - this image of this woman who can't talk anymore and her kids are watching her die?
 Yes. It seems to go pretty deep.
 Do a lot of your - a lot of the - of your clients have cancer?
 Not just cancer, people that are just HIV positive too?
 I don't know. It would strike me that that would be very evocative for you.
 Yes.
 Does it remind you of your mom? Does it remind you of your dad in some way?
 Now I'm sort of - (pause)
 That's a universally upsetting thing. But what is it for you that it evokes, this image of a woman there with skin hanging off her body?
 Yes.
 Oh what did you think she had?
 And it wasn't something you found yourself doing having spontaneous (inaudible) screaming like -
 And was there a feeling?
 Like just overwhelmed.
 So you were 16 and your way of trying to deal with it at time was to kind of say, "I don't want to think about that."
 I don't want to know.
 So you never spoke to her about the fact that she was dying of cancer?
 By who's rule?
 And - this is a remarkable story. Right? To me it's a remarkable story. You didn't know that your mother was dying and you weren't allowed to say. Was there any logic to it?
 It was such a taboo.
 It sounds like you're - there's a kind of part of you that's angry at him.
 For shutting you up.
 So he demanded of you and didn't demand it of himself.
 Did you - was there a part of you that was afraid to tell him? Was there a part of you that feared the stigma? I mean you're 16. Not really?
 I don't - I mean I'm really asking - I'm not suggesting it.
 There's a part of you that wanted to tell your best friend.
 Well and did you - who was saying that? The guy who had the pamphlets or -
 And how did you react?
 Why you had gotten so upset.
 It's - so there's something about - you've spoken about your father as feeling like he's too much. Like you're just like ehh. But there was something about him when you were 16 that really had a hold on you. He asked you not tell.
 And you didn't tell.
 And he didn't hold herself to (cross talk).
 Right. Why do you think that is that there's a part of you that really is loyal to your father in a way that most people wouldn't be? Right? [24:25]
 What's it feel like now when you said, "I never thought of it. I never thought that I could."
 Right.
 It sounds like -
 - your emotional reaction is anger. Is it? Or -
 Like how could I have done this?
 Right. Right. So it must have been confusing. You were 17, 18 and there's all these jokes. And it's like your mother died of cancer but you haven't told anyone. And you didn't really even know until a couple days before. It doesn't sound you got talk about it in your family like, what does it mean to us that our mother, our wife died of cancer?
 So it's hard to -
 So there you are -. Right. It doesn't have -
 Does what really matter? What she died of?
 Well there was something about what she said there that wasn't - it did matter to you. Right, at some level?
 So like kind of -
 Right. So when she said that, it's kind of like it takes away your experience a little bit. Right?
 You look really pissed off right now.
 Right. It's just kind of this controlling suffocating thing to do. Right?
 It was almost like - it was like her life.
 And then did - and then you said that was your last session so you never went back.
 You were pissed off at her.
 You mean your disability insurance was taken away because you were depressed?
 So you were really pissed off. Pissed off at her, pissed off at this system that somehow - if you're a risk we'll take away your insurance.
 Like, or I'm imagining that's what it was.
 So -
 And you what?
 Would you tell her? Could you tell a therapist?
 Are you worried about it ending or -?
 It's interesting, I mean. You said I couldn't do that, well her son died a year ago.
 What do you mean?
 Right. So you couldn't be angry with her.
 But you would feel uncomfortable being that angry?
 So it means emotion for you, anger.
 Sometimes you get angry in here.
 That's right, you came in. You said you were being such a bitch at work. I imagine some of that was anger, like you showed people part of your angry side. [33:01]
 You pick. You pick your victim.
 What do you mean? You mean that he had seen - that he noticed that you could be cold to him.
 How about -
 Well I was - yes. I was just wondering what was happening. And I was sort of thinking - I was sitting here wondering about how easy it is for you to be angry with people. Like would you go to your therapist and say, "That really felt insensitive, and controlling, and smothering." Or however you experienced it. Or would that be hard for you?
 Right. You mean to actually go back and do that?
 Right.
 That you're past that and you're in a different stage in your life.
 Right.
 A question for me that I'm sort of holding, is not so much the specific but like, how comfortable are you part - are you with the part of you that can get angry because anger is about feeling like you're being attacked or smothered and then you retaliate? It's very adaptive. So that's sort of what I'm sitting here wondering about. I'm not really thinking. I mean I'm getting to know that part of you.
 When's it easy?
 Like?
 Bitchy's different right?
 Bitchy's like you don't really have to own it if you're bitchy, right?
 Like anger's like, I'm mad at you.
 Bitchy's like -
 I don't know.
 What's bitchy like for you? What are you like when you're bitchy?
 I don't think I've seen this in you. Have I?
 Yes.
 It's for minutes.
 It is a mic, a microphone.
 Sue (ph) mic.
 You didn't - did you know? Had you noticed it before?
 Did you wonder what it was before?
 Process.
 Well what sense do we make out of our when we're sitting here. You know? Like when we're sitting here and it makes you a little uncomfortable. It's usually like when I'm, sort of - my experience is I'm waiting - I'm just sort of waiting to see where you want to go. But somehow - what sense do you make of it? Or what's the feeling?
 Because it feels to me like you kind of - there's like two levels. You get uncomfortable and then you get sort of critical for being uncomfortable. You kind of go, "I don't know why I'm -"
 It almost feels like you're critical of yourself for being that way.
 Does it feel that way?
 Oh.
 So you were feeling like I know all your s***. I know all the bad things about you so I could never like you.
 Are you self-conscious about the camera?
 Yes. You keep looking over there.
 You're - these are your focal points.
 So what do you - any sense of what it's about? Is it about, like you're - I don't know - I mean I can spin lots of theories that I could offer us. But any -
 Is it staying away from me? If you're [stuttering sound] decreases this? Is it -?
 I mean it could be. Is it that? I don't -
 It does feel that way. Because these are just - I'm just spinning these. Who knows what it is.
 And then -
 Right.
 Right. So there's something about a little here, a little there and then you have to look at me. It's like we have to make contact. Right.
 So is that - is there more to the camera? Is there something about being videoed or video taped that's uncomfortable or not really?
 Well let's stay with the first thing then because - how do you experience those moments where we're kind of just sitting there?
 Right, this feeling of being exposed.
 Well here I am -
 - with all my s***.
 And maybe I - how could I like someone with all this s***?
 Thank you for sparing me. (laughter)
 Right. So I'm not quite sure, are you saying - why is it interesting to you? What you said, "well this is interesting."
 And if I - and if I know you have weakness, what do you think it might do? Or a man knows you have weaknesses?
 Out with her. Is that I wouldn't find you acceptable, or desirable, or likable, or worthwhile?
 Right.
 Well with them you don't even have to -
 Right.
 Yes.
 Yes. Yes. So there are two really poignant feelings. There's this like, men I can't have and I want to bring them closer. And then there's, I'm kind of being you, I'm sitting here telling you about myself. And I feel exposed. And I feel like who could like me if I tell them what a bitch I am. I mean so. How acceptable do you feel right now? [44:41]
 Yes. How much do you think I could like you right now?
 You feel kind of unlikable?
 Any sense of - you're moving away from it right now.
 Any sense of (laughter) -
 (laughter)
 We have a little safety realm over here. Hello Mr. Camera. (laughter) So you're aware of wanting to move away from it.
 Are you? Or are you just following my lead?
 No but are you aware of it?
 Yes.
 Yes. Well what -
 I didn't see your face get red.
 I just knew that somehow you were moving away.
 Right. So there's - it's uncomfortable. Now what about it's uncomfortable?
 What's not uncomfortable about it? (laughter) Okay. All right. Well it's like I'm asking you to stay with it. Right? There's a - I'm sort of sitting here thinking there's a part of you that's right now feeling like, how could he like me? And I'm asking you to focus on it. And there's a part of you that kind of has hope. Right? That's saying, look I'm not a bitch. Right? I'm not totally unlikable.
 Good.
 Well this - so we're trying to explore a certain experience you have, right? That sometimes when you were sitting here with me there was a moment when you felt like, I just said all this s***. How could he like me? Right?
 So and - you know part of the way I process that is, she's saying to me if I really show him who I am - really show him who I am, could I be accepted? That's - I don't know if that's what you're - that's one way that I make sense of it. My ways of making sense of it always change, as I know you better. But that's one way. And another thing, I hear you saying, it's important to say that this isn't like all of what you are. You're not just all this fear about not being likable.
 There's part of you that like yourself. [47:35]
 Right.
 Should slip some of them in there.
 Yes. But why - in -
 No, what were you going to say?
 No, you were going to say something. There's no point to what?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Why - what just happened there?
 You were going to say something. And then what you were afraid that you were interrupting? No?
 Is that what happened?
 Well I don't - I can always remember what I'm saying. I'm often very - when you have a reaction like that.
 You had this reaction like you thought I was saying something. And you kind of like, I know, I know, it's not. I don't know what you were going to say. It's not why should I care about feeling positive - showing you I'm positive or something. I'm curious what that's about, what you're saying. But you're kind of like quickly it goes away. Right?
 Right. Right.
 Right. Right. Right. Right. Why no, no, no? Why can't you say it?
 Because why?
 Okay.
 But the silliness has its grip on you.
 Right. You say it's silly why I can't - oh wait, what was silly? The thing you were going to say?
 Oh so to say it was kind of silly.
 Oh so you don't want - you're choosing not to say it.
 Fine. Okay. I didn't understand that.
 Okay. We have to choose a way to wrap up. Is there something you want to wrap up with, or - [50:01]
 Okay. Okay.
 Part of you maintains hope that -
 I get it.
 Right. Okay.
 You said this risky thing.
 And then you kind of like trying to take care of yourself by kind of saying, "Well that was embarrassing." You're pointing out how embarrassing it was in a kind of serious way - not so serious way. Right?
 Is that sort of. Okay.
 I'll see you in a week.
 I think this is the seventh session.
 Of him leaving you?
 What does that really mean? Is it really that you want to be much closer to him or are you just scared that he might go away?
 Now you can look back; now you're getting back what you want?
 Do you really want it to?
 So all long you've wanted him and also it wasn't specifically with him that the sexual problems came. It would have been that way with anybody you can say. So why blame him for everything?
 Is that what it feels like to you?
 How does it feel when you're making love with him? Is it done like you really want him? Or do you think: "I have to do this"? Or what is it?
 You are doing it for him?
 You just gotta do.
 So, presumably, you're not really doing it for you. You are feeling things but you are really not passionately into it.
 Making love is not for you maybe?
 It's not with Charlie it is special and sometimes you feel it ought to be really special with Charlie.
 So like you're saying it ought to be that Charlie was special to you - that you loved him; that you had sex with him and both of those were something just for him. That's the way things should but that's not the way you are and that's funny or something?
 So you're still in love with him. Exactly, you're making up for something that he doesn't even know about? Not that you are more attracted to him now - different? (14:50)
 That this has brought you to a decision point and now it has become important to know what you want to do?
 This is what you want.
 Where are you now with that...the question with...when you say your sexual values?
 On the one hand sex is something to be enjoyed and you like it, but on the other hand it is something dirty, immoral, something one shouldn't talk about in polite conversation. Something like that?
 It has to be that way?
 And if you're in it, you're doing the wrong thing and it's fun but you are doing the wrong thing right?
 So as long as it is moral...
 It's something really terrible that didn't quite sink in?
 You just put it off?
 And then you'd have to live with that again?
 But still because it's wrong, you get thrown into it and then you have to live with it...something wrong?
 Like trying to get support for what you've done?
 With the other guy?
 This was with Charlie?
 Making a play for Charlie again?
 A-ha. And it feels the same as it did when you were with that other guy and there was a reaction afterwards?
 So you can tell him?
 So that is the issue. You really want to tell him that about sleeping with this guy but you think it would really mess things up and he might leave you if you did?
 You can't tell him?
 But he keeps closing you off?
 How do you feel about his not wanting you to tell him about sex?
 Do you like it out in the open?
 So you are afraid to push on it because it might hurt him and because what?
 So is like you've just given up?
 It is useless to try?
 So you have to tread very carefully. You don't want to do anything that may send him away?
 Is that what you think and feel?
 What I'm hearing you saying is that you can hardly make a move about what's going on in your head because you are so scared that any little thing will make him reject you?
 He doesn't want to hear about you.
 So it's okay for him to do that but it is not okay for you to do that?
 As it is now though, you are just, kind of, shut off. He doesn't know?
 On the other hand you were saying maybe if you could get this out in the open, then you could come to together to a resolution which is different from doing it here.
 So you feel he won't give in then, maybe?
 Can you talk about that? What you just said. That's another level we have. I mean instead of just saying: " I just want to tell you about all the stuff in my head", can you say: "I feel you don't want me to talk about that." Is that true? And why is that? Do you see what I mean?
 Yes. Kind of get into that. That's not talking about it - that is saying: "I feel you don't want me to talk about it - is that true? Why don't you want me to talk about it? You tell me about your things. It's very strange to me that I've never been able to tell you about my things." Like that, you see.
 What does that mean? But I'll play you?
 But I have been telling you that that will make you feel even more uncomfortable.
 But you're married!
 To be interesting it would have to be bad or elusive or exciting?
 There is something wrong with him there?
 It sounds like there has been this incredible gulf between you. It just felt such a long time. You don't share that with each other?
 What was that?
 I remember. (52:06)
 You mean actually when he makes love to you?
 That would be that he would be pleased with you or something?
 That he is not satisfying you somehow. And that is one of the issues that has to be confronted? (54:44)
 And that leaves you nowhere because you're sort of saying that something might work and he says: "Forget it."
 It's like entirely taking you out of the situation - telling you about what he did when he was 18.
 Don't push it.
 These are fantasies about sex you are talking about?
 Set off by his not giving you what you want? You would rather have it from him than it being a fantasy?
 So you would never get anything?
 Not only do you not get it - you get cut off. (59:53)
 "If you only knew what I really did." (chuckles)
 We are going to have to stop. Go ahead. I'm listening while I'm filling out these things.
 So you never got a chance to get to what it was?
 Which is the same thing again. Something comes up and then you get cut off - you just can't talk to him about it?
 I will see you next week.
 I may be working for two weeks. Maybe. I will let you know.
 Okay. Goodbye.(1:05:03)
 Where should we start today?
 Okay. How did you come to your choice?
 That's unfortunate.
 It is harder when it's family.
 It's not really about you.
 What has she done more recently? I mean I know when she was at school there were lots of examples of things that she did that were really unkind. But has she continued to act that way in her adult life?
 You have to act in ways that you feel good about regardless of whether somebody else isn't up to that standard. It's about you feeling okay with what choices you're making. [00:06:04]
 Would you feel good about that choice [00:06:10]?
 But you're dependent right now upon family peace.
 What do you feel your mom asks that's too much? I mean I know this, but...
 Usually talking and eating.
 Well nobody has asked that of you so...
 Yes, and then you'll go. It'll be over.
 You haven't said that you mom expects you to be friends with her. You said your mom expected you to go for the sake of family peace.
 Good, good plan.
 What is the connection between you going to Hebrew school and Doreen's bridal shower?
 Interesting logic.
 Real school is a requirement of the government.
 Yes, you could have. It doesn't really seem related to me.
 That seems unfair.
 See you're jumping way ahead. Part of what's making you even more upset about the idea of giving up three or four hours of your day is the fact that you're jumping way ahead to your wedding and your bridal shower and what might happen at these future events.
 That is true but you're - these are not things you need to be feeling right now, because you're not engaged, you're not planning your shower right now. I hope that one day you will do those things and I'm sure you will, but you don't have to feel upset about your guest list at this moment.
 Okay so let's stay on what you're actually upset about which is, what's happening now, which is having to go to her bridal shower and not liking the idea of her becoming part of your family. We don't need to be upset about yours now, but staying with where you actually are. [00:16:00]
 This is all possibly quite true. It's the conventional thing to do, to invite the siblings of your...
 It's pretty conventional to invite your fiancée's siblings to your shower.
 She's not demanding. Your mom is asking you to go.
 So what do people usually get for doing the right thing? You feel like you're doing the right thing. You're going because your mom wants you to. What do other people get for usually for doing the right thing?
 So why do you deserve something?
 So would it really make it feel fair if you got something now?
 So what would feel fair to you?
 What amount would you need?
 So what stops you from bringing up these ideas to mom? [00:22:11]
 Okay.
 Wait a minute. So you don't feel like you're being a decent human being any more?
 I'm just listening to your own words change from this is something that I deserve to I'm not being the nicest human being by asking. Those sound like different ideas to me.
 With your mom.
 I think there's an important piece here that is your mom is - Doreen invited you; your mom is asking you to go. And your friends are predicting that Doreen would be upset if you didn't go based on their experience of her. But Doreen hasn't actually said any of this stuff to you.
 No, you can't - it would be probably unrealistic to ask. But you're making lots of assumptions about what she would actually say. I'm not saying that you should try to get confirmation, but you should be aware that you're making a lot of assumptions.
 There is no way to get confirmation, you're right.
 I don't think it's realistic to get confirmation from her about whether or not your assumptions are correct. That makes the whole thing a much bigger deal than it already is. It adds another layer of complexity. But a lot of the anger that you're feeling is sort of exacerbated by your belief that your assumptions are 100 percent correct. And we don't really know that. We can't really know that without confirmation which you can't really get. [00:26:27]
 One of the things that I'm focused on is not whether or not she's evil or whether or not it's appropriate of your mom to expect you to go. I think the important thing for us to focus on is you've made this decision to go based on your mom's request and your friends' expectations that there would be some consequence to not going. So how can you go with as little distress as possible?
 And you could make that choice.
 You know it's coming. Or you know when the shower is even if you don't get a paper invitation and that you've been invited to go.
 Seems even if you don't have confirmation or are aware that you have been told...
 ...maybe by sending family.
 It's your - it really is your choice to make. You know - your mom has given her input and told you what she wants from you. And you make your decision.
 You could. [00:32:00]
 Most likely not.
 Yes, I really don't want to be there. You have made that abundantly clear.
 Her focus would be in a different place than it was in her new route. What's important to focus on is you making decisions that you feel comfortable with, things that - making decisions that feel consistent with what your values are. You don't have control over her decisions or what she's like. You only have control over what you choose to do in the places where you have choices to make.
 Yes, it wouldn't be a choice that would be consistent with your values.
 Even though you dislike her. That's different. [00:36:08]
 Then someone else doing something mean doesn't mean that it's right to do something mean yourself. You can protect yourself, but you don't want to be a mean person.
 How many years ago was it?
 Might it be time to let it go? Can someone ever be forgiven for past mistakes?
 What good is it doing you to hold onto it? So it doesn't seem like it feels like the right thing to do to forgive her for her sake, but I'm wondering what it does for you to hold onto it?
 But that's not what forgiveness is. Forgiveness isn't saying that she's a great person if you don't believe it is. Forgiveness is letting go of your anger so that the anger isn't hurting you.
 She's not making you go.
 It's important to direct your feelings to the appropriate place because you're using lots of different things to fuel your anger at Doreen, and some of them are about Doreen but some of them are about different things. Some of them are about Cullen...
 ..and his not wanting to go to Hebrew school. That's not really about Doreen's shower. Some of them are about your mom's expectations of keeping up appearances. That's not fair to be mad at Doreen for that. So the things that are fueling your anger right now, you need to make sure that they're not being misdirected. So you being angry that your parents bribed Cullen to get him to go to Hebrew school but didn't give you anything, that's not really fair to hold that against Doreen.
 You can absolutely not like her. There's no rule saying you have to like her.
 I would doubt that she is doing any of those things just to make your life miserable. She's not marrying Cullen to upset you. She didn't plan the time of the bridal shower to upset you. She's doing those things because that fit for her. For whatever reason, her daughter getting married - hopefully because they like one another - but not just to piss you off. And who knows why the time of the shower was picked. Maybe that was the time that was convenient at the place that they're having it. It's probably not their - your desire to sleep in on a Sunday was probably not what fueled their decision to time the bridal shower.
 Other people might have different schedules than what you're used to.
 That's an interesting strategy.
 Well that's good to know.
 Doesn't seem like a very adult way to handle the situation.
 So why not try that version out?
 So what would your mom actually do if you said mom, I know you want me to go; I really don't want to go; I'm sending along this gift?
 Well are those consequences that you're willing to accept?
 Being yelled at and being told that you're not doing the...
 Well I don't think many people do.
 They can both be unpleasant.
 Stick with reality. You don't have rehearsal.
 Stay with reality. Stay with what your options really are.
 Not really an option unless it's a coed shower.
 Not.
 I'm glad to see that you're recognizing that that's not a realistic option.
 So you have to decide whether or not you want to be straightforward and...
 ...and maybe get yelled at, if you want to go to please her and not - which would not be doing what you want to do, or whether you want to have a less straightforward way of dealing with it, which is either hoping you'll get sick or pretending you get sick.
 You have two weeks?
 One week? One week to make your final decision?
 So it's really soon. I did want to check in before we end about your psychiatrist appointment because I think you've been.
 But remember going to the ER and getting that response so that's the important take-away there.
 You're already at the 450?
 And you think that's from the Klonopin?
 Right because there's some other types of meds.
 How was your panic?
 So that's a big change because you had been having a lot more anxiety and panic.
 But just for short periods during the day?
 But given what we've been talking about today, that might be situation appropriate. I mean you're really dreading the shower and you're really angry and those two things can make you want to curl up in a ball and cry. Those are pretty appropriate feelings for what you're anticipating in the coming week.
 But it has been an idea that's been there. Not - if the feelings don't last for that long, while I feel sympathy for you feeling that way, it doesn't make me worry that much about a depressive episode because that - depressive episodes are when the feelings are there and really stick around. The difference between sadness and depression is that depression is two weeks of feeling like that, not being able to feel anything else and what you just described was much more fleeting than that. So certainly my hopes for you are higher that you're not going to have feelings like that, but it doesn't red-flag depression.
Well I'm glad to hear that you guys are on the same page. I know some of what you were worried about was her wanting to take you off the Welbutrin and not having any other options. And it sounds like she listened to what you had to say and came up with some things to try that might help.
 So you'll have some good follow up.
 Well I'm glad to hear that. Well why don't we stop for today and we'll meet next week as regular? Okay. [00:52:38]
 Hi. Come on in.
 Good thank you.
 Is it something you feel you can talk about with him?
 Were you scared of your behavior?
 I was thinking what made you stop. [00:22:09]
 It really upsets you to think about that time.
 Mm. You don't see any way to get out of the dynamic of being the outsider? [00:30:24]
 Well it sounds like you're looking for some way, with other people other than yourself, to make peace with what's happened in the past.
 Mm-hmm.
 What do you think the tension is about?
 Are you afraid of what will happen?
 Was what you were talking about before bad news?
 Because you should just be over it? [00:37:17]
 Well I personally wouldn't necessarily think that.
 Because it's not how I'm trained to think. Or how I think.
 It sounds like you think that way.
 Oh very little. What brings that to mind?
 Yeah I'm wondering what brought that to mind.
 What do you want to be feeling that you're—or what do you want to be improving that you feel isn't?
 Well just — does go away mean it's completely out of your memory? Or what does it mean? [00:41:53]
 You always feel like that.
 Do you feel like I feel that way toward you? Or that I even communicated or didn't communicate something in this session that made you feel that way? [00:43:01]
 Because you're talking about having these expectations that you feel you always come short. And you end up feeling so inadequate.
 So that even therapy you're sort of failing at somehow.
 You're doing things. You're doing so much to work through your pain. That's what's so striking to me is how much you're doing and little you feel you're doing. [00:44:05]
 After coming here or-?
 You know, Jenny, we're going to need to stop. There is clearly a lot more to understand this because this issue comes up a lot. That somehow you're not doing this right. You should feel more progress. You should be further along. This comes up a lot.
 So let's talk about it on Wednesday.
 (inaudible at 00:45:44) good few days.
 Client Grogan. Interview 10. Client Grogan. Interview 10. (inaudible at 1:04:04.6) [1:04:04.7]
 So you think there's a —
 Yeah.
(Pause)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. You say to yourself in approximately a month, I'm going to understand myself and it seems to you right now that that's absolutely impossible. [1:06:04.2]
 Makes — it sounds like it makes you feel desperate or something.
 That makes it sound a little (inaudible at 1:06:47.7) your fault that you don't understand yourself. That you're — this is going to fail and it's your fault.
 If you just weren't so apathetic then things would fall apart. [1:07:08.3]
 So it's like no. No. No. I thought you were (inaudible at 1:07:24.1) become apathetic because it doesn't seem like anything is going to work.
 And, so it's like as long as I don't have a chance, why try?
 Yeah. So it's sort of better to go down without a fight than —
 Trying to sell yourself a bill of goods (ph). [1:08:04.6]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You're saying it may be true but —
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That maybe you don't buy it yet. You don't buy it because it's not a nice thing.
 So it all sort of makes sense that way.
 You're rather it be — there would be something to understand you mean?
 Well I don't know what it is you think I'm not understanding.
 (inaudible at 1:10:36.8) these kinds of feeling that I'm having about this is part only here (inaudible at 1:10:45.4) that other places too. Like on the one hand, it feels like there's something wrong with me but not — well, yeah, I guess. (inaudible at 1:10:55.2) not liking this (inaudible at 1:10:57.8) don't like this or something. [1:11:01.3]
 No. No. But I thought you were saying your feelings were the same like of not knowing what's right.
 Where are you floundering?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. If you are, it's a monumental surprise. What do you want to get? [1:12:04.3]
 Now —
 Oh.
 Maybe you said I shouldn't try to psychoanalyze these things but just sort of forget about why.
 Well now — now wait, wait, wait. It sounds like the issues for you is so not whether you just — it's like if you could really know why, you'd like that. But the issue is like you want to (inaudible at 1:13:12.0) out. [1:13:12.5]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Right or wrong, it's like you're (inaudible at 1:13:53.0) find out if you're like (inaudible at 1:13:57.9) in terms of anything really important or really large — [1:14:05.8]
 Maybe.
 Yeah. If there's nothing large, how come therapy? You know like it because it sounds like why do you need therapy if there's nothing wrong?
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 1:15:29.1)
 How so?
 (inaudible at 1:16:05.3) like — it's like that's say James is talking to you.
 And it's like (inaudible at 1:16:15.3) if you talked about that once and something (inaudible at 1:16:20.5) why talk about it again?
 (inaudible at 1:16:26.9) I just don't understand.
 You mean (inaudible at 1:16:42.3)
 (inaudible at 1:16:48.9)
 Oh. I understand.
 (inaudible at 1:17:03.0) [1:17:03.7]
 It sounds like (inaudible at 1:17:23.4) it's like if you talk about it once and it doesn't work then you don't want to talk about again because you feel it's not going to work. Oh. So, it must really feel like (inaudible at 1:17:36.4) kind of think about the kinds of things you've talked about (inaudible at 1:17:40.2)
 But I guess like that's (inaudible at 1:17:49.9)
 (inaudible at 1:17:54.7) talk about (inaudible at 1:17:58.0)
 (inaudible at 1:18:07.8)
 This is like one — something you've talked about before or —
 Yeah. It's like you're so locked in on it that you can't move anywhere else.
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 1:19:31.5)
 Yeah. It's sort of like whatever you say in here many times (inaudible at 1:19:44.0) there's another side of it too.
 You want to — you sometimes (inaudible at 1:19:55.8)
 (inaudible at 1:21:07.8)
 (inaudible at 1:21:09.8) it's like (inaudible at 1:21:11.1) but like feeling angry, all of the sudden, you feel guilty (inaudible at 1:21:19.8) another person's feelings. And you just can't (inaudible at 1:21:26.6)
 It sounds like (inaudible at 1:21:42.7)
(Pause)
 (inaudible at 1:22:22.7)
 (inaudible at 1:22:41.8)
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 1:23:15.7)
 Yeah.
 Like you're here and you have to be active instead of (inaudible at 1:23:27.2)
 And that is hard.
 (inaudible at 1:23:37.3) What happens (inaudible at 1:23:47.0)
 (inaudible at 1:24:44.1) some sort of (inaudible at 1:24:47.8) And you don't know what (inaudible at 1:24:52.2)
 So you what? When you (inaudible at 1:25:34.2)
 I want you to (inaudible at 1:25:57.8) I want you to (inaudible at 1:26:04.1) I'm not sure about all (inaudible at 1:26:09.5) It's like a part of you that sort of says I have some sort of problems or things about me that (inaudible at 1:26:21.5) things that are important to me. And then it sounds like the other part of you (inaudible at 1:26:31.6) like nothing is very important (inaudible at 1:26:35.7) So what I'd like you to do (inaudible at 1:26:46.4)
 Yeah. (inaudible at 1:26:56.3) talk about that. Talk about (inaudible at 1:27:05.1)
 (inaudible at 1:27:10.7)
 Yeah. (inaudible at 1:27:16.7)
 (inaudible at 1:27:20.4)
 Okay. I telegram my lines. And then (inaudible at 1:27:27.2)
 So I'm going to have to ask you to sit in that chair and talk to me anyway. (inaudible at 1:27:50.5)
 (inaudible at 1:33:12.4)
 (inaudible at 1:36:51.8)
(Pause)
 (inaudible at 1:37:45.4)
 It sounds like (inaudible at 1:37:51.0)
 Maybe you (inaudible at 1:38:00.5) It sounds like you got out of (inaudible at 1:38:06.6) [1:38:08.5]
 How come — can you get a handle on what's bothering you?
 That sounds like you're sure that you want (inaudible at 1:39:05.2) [1:39:07.6]
 It sounds as though (inaudible at 1:39:11.6)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's easy to say I'm a spoiled brat and like pout. And I like men to pay attention to me. Like that stuff is easy.
 Yeah. It sounds like you experience the second way as being kind of weak.
 Like you shouldn't (inaudible at 1:40:21.1)
 Take those things and really be hurt by them.
 But they really hurt.
 Yeah.
 You were like (inaudible at 1:42:16.7) yourself.
 And then it occurred like you having no (inaudible at 1:42:32.0) when I don't really — I don't really want to — letting myself enjoy the luxury of what it tastes like (inaudible at 1:42:42.1)
 But it sounds like - it seemed like you had no right to your reactions (inaudible at 1:43:02.3) Like — well no, it's not even that. It's more like they're not your (inaudible at 1:43:09.8) they're not even — yeah (inaudible at 1:43:11.7) to my reactions. The reason is because they're not really reactions. They're like something I'm doing to myself. [1:43:17.7]
 Yeah. (inaudible at 1:43:26.4) yourself by doing (inaudible at 1:43:28.2) like there's strings on you (inaudible at 1:43:35.2)
 (inaudible at 1:44:05.4) you're saying now like you're shallow and that leads to (inaudible at 1:44:10.0) from the inside. [1:44:12.4]
 Is that what you were thinking then? And now?
 Always.
 Like sometimes it feels like you want to be (inaudible at 1:44:40.6) so you are (inaudible at 1:44:41.9)
 Okay.
 I see. So that sounds really like the opposite of like the things James (inaudible at 1:45:00.1) Sometimes you've got to make yourself feel (inaudible at
 Well, today for example while you uh, have been quiet, have thoughts occurred to you that didn't want to say for one reason or another?
 Ah.
 Almost as though you must feel I have something to use against you and you don't.
 Ah, and so you, you assume I think horrible things about you.
 You know, I have the idea that, from the, the way your thoughts have gone, perhaps sometimes when you're silent for example, perhaps now, uh, it's almost as though, it's like keeping your coat on.  I imagine from what you said that telling things that seem very personal must feel much like undressing, taking your coat off, or as though it were sort of a mental undressing.  And that if you're silent it's not doing that.
 Like kind of keeping your mental coat on.
 We're each in our place here.
 Sounds like a variation on your idea that I'll use what you say against you.
 Do you?
 Well, our time's up.
 Oh my God.
 Oh wow.
 Yes I do.
 Oh my God.
 Oh. Is that...
 I imagined you're exaggerating a bit.
 You mean somebody who will bring them referrals?
 Really?
 Is that the one in [inaudible]?
 Oh your landlord plays Handball?
 Good.
 Ouch.
 Good.
 Yes, it was like $2000, right?
 [inaudible at 00:11:54]
 Well it does sound like you're able to do a little bit more.
 That's probably what it is. I believe that getting out helped you. You hadn't even felt up to that for a while.
 How many did you have?
 How many did you have?
 Of course you do.
 How did you get home?
 That was a terrible idea.
 Yes, come out here. [00:16:04]
 To get back, yes.
 After having been shit-faced.
 It was a terrible idea.
 Right. Just cut over.
 Right because you buy [inaudible at 00:18:14], right?
 What do you like about her?
 She's just more attractive? [00:20:01]
 Have you been into anybody in a while?
 Yes.
 Oh yes. Absolutely. [00:22:36]
 Good.
 Absolutely. Do you know what's causing the diarrhea? [00:24:49]
 I was going to ask you what that meant but I think I understand, yes. [00:26:04]
 That's the thing on the farm?
 Yes, I think you may have mentioned that you were going to go, but...
 Well put, I guess. [00:28:04]
 Good. That includes their dogs for the membership drive?
 So what number does that put you at?
 You can't just go online, scanning online and faxing them? [00:30:25]
 Yes because of your work flow, workflow...
 I see. [00:32:21]
 So I'm not sure what's the chicken and what's the egg here but it seems like there's some combination of some things going better. A little more business, being able to get out a little more and being able to do a little bit more for work, stay a little more focused. [00:34:10]
 What are your thoughts?
 We should stop now. Hope the meeting goes well.
 Yes. [00:36:59]
 Client 0324-006 interview number eight November 10, 1970 Client 0324-006 November 10, 1970 Interview number eight.
 Same old stuffness (ph)?
 Um hm.
 OK.
 It is nice (ph) not to be crowded and pushed by everything at once. It maybe just nice to sort of let it all lie for awhile.
 [It doesn't really sound it wasn't really right.] (ph) It wasn't where you were.
 (inaudible at 2:42)
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Yeah so it sounds almost like in a way it was like talking about a friend that's like knowing how completely different or you when you fell completely differently feel so at that point it really got clear that you feel that when.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 You know it sounds like as you wrote that sort of the way that they have been all those good things unfolded and they made you feel real good but then they it also it also did make you frightened or it, the way you're talking about it sounds like its, it truly was a very special day but there's a little bit of a fragile quality about how you talk about it like I can pick up that you are not really sure or not really comfortable about just letting yourself be with that. There is some (inaudible at 17:27) concern.
 Um hum.
 Given that you felt so good still it had that real precarious kind of sense for you and like you wouldn't know where it was going to come from.
 Um hum. Almost sounds like it, to start feeling that way, to start writing and that kind of thing might even have a superstitious quality for you because you know like whenever you start to settle into it or really you know settle it around you like a coat then all of a sudden someone snatches it away or something snatches it away. (18:33)
 You know there's something about it. I guess I should check this out but it sounds like one of the things in addition to just the well the really like being open to things and really like beautiful things happening, working hard on a piece of music and really finishing it off, but there's a quality (ph) of how you are. You're not pushed toward somebody or pulled by something. It's like you could let that guy sit out at the table and.....
 It really, it felt good to be able to go to bed and not be concerned about him. I'm not sure what form it might be.
 Yeah. It's like really........
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Yeah.
 It sounds like you really felt like you were going to have to almost physically wrench yourself away or really chomp the ties.
 Um hum.
 Um hum. Yes.
 Yeah. Yeah. It's like the thing that popped to my mind when you started talking about putting borders in boxes was like well then we'll really have to pull in the external controls from the outside you know.
 I mean you know really work at it. It wasn't, although the frame (ph) that keeps coming to my mind is that like when you're feeling good as you are, as you talk about yourself going and doing these various things, I feel like well you're choosing in a very, in a way that's very contained. It's like you choose to go out to the airport. You weren't driven by anything; you weren't ambivalent about it, you weren't, I mean there were some questions I guess, but like you weren't put into a conflict about it. You wanted to go. You wanted to see the rain on the airplane and if he was there you could pick, so it felt good to be able to pick him up and take him home and put him home.
 It sounds like that is one of the most, at least as you say it to me, that that's one of the most important differences in the two ways of feeling. Like you were feeling that choice in you or maybe you don't feel it as choice?
 Um hum.
 I wanted to ask you about something that you said that struck me; I hadn't heard before. A little while back you said, I think, "When I, something about the self that I'm afraid to be. The self that's into writing, art and music and stuff." And I hadn't heard you say it quite that way before. Not about the art and the music and stuff that the business about being afraid to be that. Is that something that, is that kind of a new sense that you have or no?
 Um.
 Um.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 You know it sounds like what happened or at least what happened awhile ago was that when like you would get so far like you'd learn the lines, you'd be able to really get into a roll and portray it but just before you went onto the end stage or the end product you got dosed with a real massive bit of anxiety, and like that well I'm not sure whether you know you may a causal link between that and not wanting to try but its like somehow you never got to the part where you know where felt fulfilled or reinforced or something that really suffered a lot where you should have been going onto the fruition of it. (32:57)
 Um hum.
 Sounds like a vicarious.........
 It sounds like that must really hurt a lot. I don't if hurts the right word but like really you must have a really deep sense of maybe loss and resentment and maybe a whole bunch of things when you see yourself kind of stopped or you see somebody else at a place where you could be and maybe farther. I'm guessing about that. (35:43)
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Just feels really impossible. Like you really are very distant from that and....
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Sometimes I (inaudible at 38:20) a real, I don't know what to call it, what you're talking about but like I get a real organic sense about it like its really is a part of you that, and I'm guessing, like it doesn't very often get to do very much or get to get it, it doesn't very often get expressed (inaudible at 38:38).
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 It's like the essence of that is that you don't, really as your telling it now, that you don't work at it. I mean you might have to work at it but it's like it either comes there's the energy force.
 The particular type of energy is there or else there's no sense in trying. If you sat down and did spend three days trying to work on anything, it wouldn't look like a poem or it wouldn't have that essential kind of essential quality that your talking about.
 But I'm wondering to in terms of what I, there's that, when I asked to start this off, does this mean that when you get to feeling good and some of this energy and the feeling towards of the you know responding to artistic expression and things, does that also mean that it brings some fear or apprehension along with it? Or are you mostly just really feeling good about being open to that?
 Um hum.
 It feels like your saying that in addition to being a beautiful experience in itself, it also in some way highlights or makes the pain sharper to.
 At the time.....
 In other words when you start to think about it.
 Um hum. Because what you go back to is so much less? Is that what you meant?
 You know I'm like really feeling almost deprived after that or being aware of being deprived because you've had a little bit of it.
 And for some reasons that you can't really change or control it's just all snatched away from you.
 Um hum.
 About facing you? Is that what you said?
 Yeah. Because it sounds like your saying "God when I get right down to it, here I am looking at myself. I have to take responsibility, a large part of it for not getting where I want to go".
 Now that sounds just the way, the last thing you said, sounded a little different from what I was hearing. That last part sounded like, well at first I thought you were saying something about the word flaw makes me think of like a well almost like a tragic hero if I remember (overlapping voices). It's like there's something that, you should pardon me ends up f-king it all up about the person. But then the last part sounded like you were saying something about "I am so incompetent I can't organize and direct my life".
 And again that's something that's kind of has that outside quality or fate or destiny quality.
 Yeah. It's like your saying "No way can I put this on anything else. No way can I put this outside of myself." And in some ways I'm wondering if your saying "I feel stuck with the very thing I hate the most." And that that would feel very defeating to me.
 Um hum.
 Um hum.
 Sounds like almost you feel in someway your chances are past you. Like there, like she has these opportunities but you have some sense of not ever being able to, for having past the point where those opportunities are there for you almost.
 I didn't mean that.
 I'm sorry to cut you off. We're going to have to stop. And I also need to straighten out something. One of the secretaries put a note in my box asking for your new address and phone number I guess but she had a different name than, I thought your name was Maureen and she had Margaret. And have I been calling you the wrong thing?
 And that's wrong?
 I'm very sorry. I'm very sensitive about that myself so I really feel bad about that. Is that what you like to be called, Margaret?
 OK.
 It really made me feel bad. Somehow my name is very important to me so I assume if I, that other peoples are very important to them. (53:10)
 Tomorrow at 5:15? OK?
 Ah! Good.
 Yeah I guess it will have to be sometime Friday. When would you be able to come then?
 Oh wow let's see. Yeah I guess that would be ok.
 Yeah. (inaudible at 54:06). OK and would you tell Vicki your new phone number and address?
 OK. Thanks a lot.
 OK.
 OK. That would be helpful. Because we're going out for dinner but we wouldn't be leaving until 6 anyway. We'd be stuck on the expressway the whole time.
 So it works out perfectly.
 Oh I know it. OK Bye-bye.(54:46)
 So, how are you holding up?
 No?
 That's okay. That sounds like a major nightmare.
 Big time.  And you still have no answers.
 Yeah.  But they did rule out cancer of the liver.
 Right.
 Bowel blockage and -
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.  
 It's the problem is that most of those, if not all of the medications that your [INAUDIBLE] bladder spasm, they're all anticholinergics that slow down the bowels, every single one of them.  I'd have to look each one up separately in terms of, you know, safety with an MAO inhibitor.
 I - well, first of all, the medication you're on already has a slowing effect on your intestines.  It has anticholinergic effects to it.
 Exactly. Yeah.  But the problem is that you then take something that's more anticholinergic to help with the bladder, I've got two anticholinergic drugs and if you'd had problems with bowel blockage before, I do think it would be, behoove any of us to think twice about putting you on another anticholinergic.  Um, on the other hand, you don't have a diagnosis yet as to why this is happening.
 Yeah.  Um, how long has it been going on for now.
 Do you have pain when you pee?
 Right.  Although it is possible to not be able to completely empty your bladder.
 So, in fact I saw someone this morning with that problem that could not empty her bladder.
 Um -
 Right.
 But they've, they already checked you for diabetes and it's not that.  
 So, you know, and it's not an infection 'cause -
 They treated that.  They checked cultures and, right?
 Now there is a condition, overactive bladder syndrome.
 And -
 Exactly. Yeah, um -
 Which is an extremely difficult to treat situation because it doesn't always respond to medication.
 Um, there's another thing called interstitial cystitis, which is even more chronic, and, um, in fact this came on fairly suddenly, I, I don't think it's interstitial cystitis, but, um -
 Well, what I would wonder is whether your bladder has dropped and whether you need a bladder suspension.
 A ur, a urologist should be able to tell you exactly - 
 It was a urologist, right?
 Yeah, so he would -
 Yeah.  Um, the one's that usually do the repairs there are the gynecologists though, if there is a fallen bladder.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Who's the doctor, is it [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 Yeah, that's [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER].
 Will he be in tomorrow?
 Okay.  
 Okay.  Well, I'll, I'll get to it tomorrow.  I won't be able to do it today.
 Um, 
 And then I'll, and give me your phone number too.
 Yeah.
 Do you know what it was he wanted?  What was it that he wanted to give you?
 Yeah, there -
 Oh yeah.  
 Do you remember what caused that though, what were you on that caused it?
 And that's all it -
 Was it like a Valium type medication?  [INAUDIBLE] 
 Oh Boy.  
 Whatever it was that [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 I can't imagine them giving you um - what they give you was -
 Yeah, but what they give you for anxiety seven, well, when your mom died would have had to have been a Valium like drug.  I don't think they would have given you any -
 And that has a very, very timely chance of causing that.  What it tells me is that you don't have much reserve in that nerve system.  So when it comes to anticholinergics, I agree, you shouldn't be on any.
 Uh, 'cause you got two bowel blockages.
 So -
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah, sometimes -
 Yeah.  I saw that. Yeah.
 Well, I'll give [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] a call and then I'll get back to you, uh, I don't have any patients scheduled tomorrow so, I'll just doing paperwork and making phone calls so, all right?
 Yeah and then it may be that, um - 
 I don't know what a blood test would even do for [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah, usually, but in this situation when it comes -
 It doesn't apply.
 Yeah.  Well I'll talk to -
 Yeah.
 Well, what I'll do is, I'll also look up the medications that are available for urinary frequency and see if any of them are non anticholinergic.  I know a majority of them are.  I don't know if there's any that are not.  Um, now you've tried the antibiotic thing -
 The other -
 Yeah.
 I'll expl - yeah, I'll explain that to him so - okay.
 This is, part of this is the - this is a typical response to insomnia and yet when it comes to the insomnia, I can't put you on anything either.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Oh yeah.
 Okay.  Yeah, I'll, I'll have to discuss it with him and then see, um, [INAUDIBLE].
 Oh I, yeah, that's very clear.  So, 'cause if they just gave you, I didn't care what class of drugs it was for your nerves back then.  It would have had to been something that of course would have been safe with the MAO inhibitor, so I'm thinking it's probably, knowing what they give in the ER, probably Lorazepam.  And that risk of causing bowel problems, and blockage with that drug is very slim because it's anticholinergic effect is very, very low, which means you've got no buffer zone whatsoever.
 Yeah.  So -
 Yeah so they need to understand, and I'll talk to him about that, it may be that his hands are tied, um - 
 Yeah.  And if they can't do anything medically for you then they should have you meet with someone who can tell you how to readjust your life to live with it.  
 Well, the question I have is, is it bladder or is it urethra.  
 I had a very similar problem that lasted for fourteen years.  And I went to numerous university urologists.  I told them anatomically exactly where the problem is.  They went right past it with the scope and right into the bladder.  They never, they never even looked.  I was so frustrated they wouldn't listen.  I finally got to a urologist in a small town where I was practicing, um, we were friends and practiced in a small town like that.  So he listened.  And he found a little area of inflammation at the very base of my urethra.  It wasn't in the bladder.  I mean, the others just bypassed it.  And I went through the same thing.  There was one night I recall getting up fifteen times to urinate.  And here I am in medical school.
 And I'm like, I mean, I went through college that way.  I went through medical school that way.  I went through the first several years of my marriage that way.
 I was like God [INAUDIBLE].
 It's horrible.
 It, it, so I understand what you're talking - 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Mine was knocked out with just a one-week supply of an anti-inflammatory drug.
 This doctor had never seen this before.  He called down to one of his former professors at the [DEIDENTIFIED] and he told him he had seen it before and the first thing you do is you start with an anti-inflammatory.  If that knocks it out, fine, if not, then you go in and remove that part surgically.  And it knocked it out in like two days.
 Yeah.  Exactly.
 Yeah.  
 Yeah.  It's not pleasant.  So I, I'll go ahead and I'll call him and we'll see what we can come up with for this.  This is a miserable condition and then, but the concern that I have is -
 Right.  
 Well part of the problem is no one's been, no one's been using MAO inhibitors for years.
 In my opinion -
 Not like, you're the only one in my practice right now on an MAO inhibitor.  People are, will be learning more because we now have an MAO inhibitor patch that people can wear.  I haven't prescribed it yet.  But I've got samples of, but I can't get anyone that even wants to take an MAO inhibitor even though they, this is pretty nonrestrictive and you don't have to adhere to a diet if you're only on 6 mg of a day.  So, you can eat anything.  There's still the medication restrictions though.  And the other thing is -
 Yeah, you'd be on more.  So I don't think you'd be able to switch.
 Right.  
 That's the problem, yknow, I mean, you can tell someone might not have the food restrictions, but the status is not in yet.
 It's the medication.
 Right.
 The opposite.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Well, let's go ahead.  I'll get in touch with you tomorrow.  I'll get in touch with you either way, okay?  I'll call him, if he's not in, I'll let you know that.
 No.  I don't think I need it.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.   That's fine.  As long as they ruled, as long as they've ruled out - 
 Yeah.
 Yeah, if like there's an original MRI still back where you had it done if you needed it again.  Okay, so why don't you set up an appointment.  You have enough medication [INAUDIBLE]?
 Yeah, you do.  Yeah, you do.  Okay, so I'll get in touch with you about that then tomorrow and we'll see what we can come up with, okay?
 All right.
 Yeah, it's, uh, gel pen.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Good.  Go for it, tell me what's going on [PATIENT NAME].
 Yeah?
 Um-hum.
 I know that marriage works on a shaky ground for quite -
 Some time.
 Um -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 So it's just you and the kids?
 From today on.  Okay.  Okay.  How are you, now, remind me, are you working full time?
 Yeah.
 Ahh.
 Right.  Right.
 Oh, yeah.
 Sure.  Everything.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Oh, on [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Off the [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That would really -
 Really mess you up.
 Yeah.
 Why not just go home?
 Oh, okay.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Yes.
 Are they open all night?
 Oh, you have work to do.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Oh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 So who watches your kids when you're working?
 Oh, oh, okay.  [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 And your medications are working out really -
 Really, well?
 And Seroquel.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 Hum.
 Okay.  Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Uh, do you have Well Care or  Amerigroup?
 [DEIDENTIFIED].
 Okay.  Okay.  Well they cover Geodon.
 Which is in the same family as the Seroquel is, but it's a lot less sedating than the Seroquel is.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Plus you're working nights also messes up the schedule.
 Um-hum.
 The Remeron is the antidepressant part, uh, uh, that we are definitely going to step up the dosage and -
 The 45 mg.
 And I'm hoping that they'd also, uh, remind you that you need to be on, under the treatment -
 [INAUDIBLE] last time you were -
 Under control.  Absolutely.
 Also the alcohol also makes, messes things up.
 It won't let medicine do its job.  And no drugs, right?
 Um, let's, let's see how you do with the increased dosage of the Remeron and, uh, adding the Geodon.  And if you have any problem with Geodon, call me.
 Uh, nausea, dizziness and very rarely it can cause restlessness.  If that happens, you need to call me, with, with the restlessness.  If you, if you feel like you're tired -
 Yeah.  Yeah.
 Yes.  And most time it calms you down.
 It's only 5% of the time, it does the opposite [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 What way?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 But you're going to follow up, uh -
 With the cardiologist about it.
 I don't think we need to mess with the Geodon, if you're not sure about the heart status.  [INAUDIBLE].
 Okay.  Okay.  Then, then no worry.  [INAUDIBLE].
 The muscle is not -
 Okay.  Okay.
 So muscles are not contracting properly because of the fluid.
 Yeah.
 Did, did they say why, what caused it?
 Oh.
 Um-hum.
 Arrhythmia.
 Right.
 Right.
 But you never had EKG prior to this?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Hmm.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Hum.
 All right, [PATIENT NAME], um, I will see you back in a month.  And call me if you have any problem with the Geodon.
 You mean the suicidal thoughts?
 No.  No.
 You need to call me, call your family, your close friend or go to the ER.
 If you're having thoughts about -
 I, if, if, if, if you feel that you may not have enough control you may need to go to the hospital before you do something stupid.
 I know you have attempted suicide before, [PATIENT NAME].
 If you call me -
 You can do it again.  Absolutely.
 Do you think you need to go to the hospital now?
 Are you sure?
 You're not having any thoughts about suicide?
 You need to call me.
 You need to call me.  I need a commitment from you that, that -
 I mean, not at 3:00 in the morning, 3:00 in the morning I want you to go to ER.  But, uh, otherwise, you definitely need to call me or your family or friends.
 This is not normal to have these thoughts.
 And you can't trust yourself to respond.
 Hang it in there, [PATIENT NAME].  All right.  See you back in a month.  Okay?  All right.
 Okay.  Thank you.
 So Dane how are you doing today?
 You mean when we were playing the communication game and your dad did not want to continue, you believe as though things began to go down hill in your treatment?
 Okay well let's think about this for a little. I remember that there were a couple of session following the communication exercise, Didn't you go over your committing offense in the session following the communication exercise.
 But you think it was before that session that your father began to miss sessions?
 You're angry about your dad missing sessions?
 Well I can definitely see how that could make you angry. It sounds like you want your dad to come up and be involved in your treatment... and you know... I am wondering if you even feel like its  a lot of responsibility put on you to have to try and help him remember when sessions are  or to call me?
 You're shaking your head and looking down, I am wondering what that means.
 I am wondering Dane, is paying attention to the time of your tantrums something you usually do?
 Oh I see... it's good to hear that although you get angry you are making attempts to counter yourself and paying attention to how long it takes you to calm down... 
 Okay, let me make sure I have this right... you were talking with Bud and Charlie asked you if that should be your focus and that made you angry?
 Can you explain to me how Charlie asking you if that should be your focus made you angry?
 Oh so because you were doing the right thing and Charlie accused you of doing something wrong that is what made you angry?
 Oh, so that must make you feel pretty good knowing that the higher levels in the group are supportive of you.
 But then I can also see how a situation like that could aggravate you. Dane in the beginning of the session you talked about feeling angry and then you recently talked about feeling aggravated- can you help me understand for a moment what the difference between the two are for you?
 So when you are aggravated you're less likely to throw a tantrum...
 You're feeling weird eh... what do you mean by weird?
 Flashbacks, what kind of flashbacks?
 Can you tell me a little more.
 Well when you say flashbacks do you mean daydreams while you are awake or dreams when you are sleeping?
 It seems like that is enough to make you anxious.
 Afraid, Wow, it takes a lot for a young man like yourself to admit that something like this makes you afraid, good job... I know other youths who have been afraid too when they have had to testify in court against those who have hurt them...
 Yeah it almost sounds as if you feel like the waiting for the trial to begin is being dragged out.... That's definitely enough to make anyone feel anyone feel anxious.
 Hmmm. Dane, I wondering about something, and maybe you have even wondered the same thing.... . If you are anxious about having to testify at the trial and also having flashbacks of the times in which your brother abused you, I am wondering if you could figure out what makes you also have flashbacks about the time you assaulted your mother. Are you curious about why this may be?
 Oh I see... you think that you re having flashbacks of you assaulting mom along with the flashbacks of the sexual abuse by brother and the anxiety around the upcoming trial because there is hurt involved in both.....
 Weird, what do you mean? I take it is more than the flashbacks and the sleeplessness.
 A loss of appetite??
 Oh..what is it that you usually eat.
 A power point presentation, that program is pretty sophisticated isn't? That's great!!
 Oh, How long ago was it that your medications were reduced.??
 What was going on the last three weeks.
 Jim?
 Oh, I am sorry to hear that? I had no idea.
 So it sounds like you have had to deal with a lot of stressful situations over these last few weeks, When you say that Julia told you that your mom was anorexic do you remember in what context she told you?
 Oh I see... do you know that there is a difference between someone being diagnosed with anorexia, as in starving them selves, and then someone just saying that somebody's anorexic??
 Yeah, so when Julia says that your mom is anorexic this doesn't mean that she is doing anything to hurt herself this just means that she is skinny. But I can see how yet in still you can be concerned about your mom.
 Hmm , it's interesting Dane, it seems like you can have both anger toward your mom and be concerned for her at the same time.
 [Look back inviting him to tell me more and to continue]
 Oh, so it sounds like you are able to empathize with Hunter--- you are able to put yourself in his shoes...
 You know Dane, I am wondering and wonder if you are curious about something? You know how when I got back and tried to schedule your family session and your dad would tell you that he was leaving messages with me to schedule one and I told you that he was not?
 I am wondering, and you can help by wondering with me..... did you feel similarly To the way you just described Hunter feels with his grandmother and mother and the way you said you felt between your father and mother..
 I see.. how did that make you feel?
 You know Dane, it must be a tough spot to be in when you are caught in the middle of adults and you are the child, that seems like it is a lot or responsibility and also what could make you angry and aggravated. I know that you have to get ready for class now, Was this session helpful to you?
 Because you can't trust them enough?
 Well you  did well with expressing yourself today... and you know what, you did it without throwing tantrums... what do you think of that-you talked about being angry, aggravated, afraid, etc.... without losing control of yourself or being hurtful to others.
 Well keep me posted on the weird things you talked about today-you know the sleeplessness, loss of appetite, to let me know if any of that changes.
 Yep.
 Balance from month's prior to this one. 
 Good. 
 I wonder that if, somehow the leak or having to do that with your car, and getting, getting the light turned off feels like it, these kind of put you a little bit of that space where it feels like "why me?" or 
 If things were different I wouldn't have to be dealing with this?
 Was it, what did the e-mail say? Was it bad? 
 So I wonder what it was about it? 
 (chuckles) 
 You sound a little, down and sad, sort of, in spite of things on the surface going well, you are certainly aware that things are fine, things are happening-
 And that's very possible. 
 And you're thinking the leak in the ceiling is,' wow it could have been so much worse'. 
 Which is so different? 
 It might get worse. 
 I, (inaudible) The only thing that can help, you know, as it gets more intense potentially, is knowing, sometimes knowing that this is what it's about
 And that it's actually not about getting that e-mail 
 When it gets, to start, just being in the practice of just of being in the practice of 'oh, I wonder what this is really about that I'm having this reaction' to this e-mail. 
 Uh huh, uh huh. 
 It's a practical self-care thing 
 As is also 
 But you even more so
 Of course
 (chuckle) 
 (chuckle) So you're growing a mustache? [00:14:00]
 There's always a way 
 A little bit. 
 It's so different
 (chuckle)
 I do
 Or you could be tense and anxious about the fact you are feeling things that you've not felt before.
 So it's not that there's nothing there,
 There actually big changes happening. 
 Yeah, it used to think the form of a kind of paranoia, as a kind of extreme way of putting it, but the fears only about the future or about getting sick or about hair, or about something bad happening. 
 The world being against you is kind of paranoia, fears about the world. It's just not that anymore, [00:19:00] and I think that in terms of like, so much feeling for you and it has for your family. But now it starts to have settling, but other strong feelings growing, they're not paranoia, but even love. To have like an outpouring of positive attachment, loving feelings for someone or something. Or sadness even, even just feel grief, is actually quite different than feeling, anxious, and paranoid and stressed out you know. 
 That's just how I was just saying, that in addition to the practicality exercise, that, to get, to have some compassion for how hard this work is until you've begun. It's a lot of work, it's really hard emotional work. And it's only just beginning. As long a run ahead of you (pause) and it's going to pull you to different places there where you might have a week where you feel really low. [00:20:01] And they'll be some reasons why in here, in things you are starting to dig up and talk about 
 Yeah, Yeah, and you lose sight of that sometimes, 
 It sounds like it 
 Yeah you are able to feel some things and not always act on them. You know to be able to feel sad and kind of down but still go out. You know [00:21:02]
 (chuckle)
 You pulled over in your car you said? 
 Okay
 What does that mean a 'mail girl'? You mean like a 
 Okay. Not like an internally hind (ph) person, 
 Someone who works for USPS
 Yeah
 Any end to all the feelings, all the memories all the experiences, absolutely can free up, internal obstacles to be who you are everywhere you go. [00:25:01] It sounds like just on the one hand, just you are experiencing that. Ways of you are feeling more and more comfortable with yourself. Just each week, each day, there are new ways that you are understand 
 Well there maybe also be, I was going to say, not on a level to this, in addition to that literally things are starting to free up. Another level is that it may in here be easier to talk about the times when you've been really courageous and things have felt really positive, than the times like that night which it seems like you've come in and it sort of feels more like a confessional. Like you say that this happened and then quickly on to how much better it's been since, and that hasn't happened. And that sort of stops us from being able to really think and know about where the pain is too. You know. [00:27:00] (pause) 
 It's funny you can be aware of this general sadness, but when it gets into being specific, it has this feeling like your mind kind of ties up loose ends with a blanket made statements so you don't' really have to think about it to much. You know like you say 'all these years of all this shit' that tells us 
 I know
 That might be something helpful, I mean I do ask lots of questions in work. I do. But it's also interesting because right there, to notice because you just said something really specific actually in noticing how hard it is to find yourself, the specifics of yourself. If you're not asked, if you don't know, if you don't know for sure the other person wants to know
 It's almost hard for you to find your psyche, it's not that you are thinking something specific right now and you're lust not saying it. You're not, you're actually struggle to even kind of locate yourself. And part of that is being something about the mutuality or reciprocity (sp), or [00:31:01]
 You could feel that, even in here. 
 Uncertain about, whether I really want to hear, or 
 Yeah it doesn't, just pause there for just a second, it doesn't necessarily have to be specific memories, but I noticed for example we were talking recently about a couple dreams, you often sort of move into collapsing there being any potential meaning about it. [00:34:02] Like, sort of, 'So anyway, how strange was that?' So, and then sort of move on. Like not actually interested—
 Maybe that's it. 
 Maybe there's a lot your dreams as one example could say about what is going on in your mind. That it's not 
 So that's part of it too, I think, being able
(crosstalking) 
 Superstition? Like they are some kind of prophecy? 
 Oh yeah
 Hogwash.
 But it might still. You're saying you have even a whole set of associations with even talking about what those dreams mean 
 Were dreams talked about, I mean you were aware of having this book in the family. 
 And when you as a kid, just that book, looking, I'm sure you looked up your own dreams and 
 You never did? 
 You're (inaudible) about, that what was, part of sort of fate, predicting who you were. 
 Now that would make you anxious about finding out dreams. 
 Move on
 (chuckles) 
 And, do you know why? Move on [00:37:59]
 So, it's also really new for me to say, what if you just try to say, slow it down, and see what there is to say about it. You, because at parties, you've been sitting in silence trying to think about it for a second. 
 Is it because it's both the old and the new in that moment, so it's quiet for a second where your mind goes is thinking about 'what am I going to do after this'. On the one hand, it's like you're, it's sinking in that you don't have to do anything, its okay. Things are good, today is a good day. But it's also a little moment where your, your mind needs now, just to notice what it did. Sort of thinking about, it gets out of here for a second. Like what is next. But that, you've been so used to, thinking about the future. Kind of anxious in thinking about the future, as a way of trying to control now and a way of trying the whole fatalism and (inaudible). You know, when am I going to die? When is this going to happen, this bad thing in the future. And I've had so little space to just relax and be in the present. just be with yourself. 
 I think that's what's reality (inaudible) is it's possible to just be. Just to be who you are, let those thoughts and feelings come flowing through. [00:42:00]
 Yeah, I mean, as you are focusing less on the future, it started like, okay, this is being, but you're not used to it. It can feel kind of empty, like there is nothing there. 
 What's going to be there, then if you're not worrying about the future so much? I don't think you know the answer to that question yet. That's part of what we've been, work here with. What's going to come up if you're not anxiously filling the silence. With just something to talk about til there's something to talk about. 
 What's there, you know? (pause) Like Thursday, Friday (laf) My turn now, 
 Yeah. 
 Okay.  So, how are you doing?
 Okay.
 Is she thinking about it or talking about it?
 Okay.  Would you like her to move back down, or not?
 Okay.  So you'd have someone with you there, so -
 Yeah, I understand.  Well, have you been talking to her pretty regularly, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Okay.  And they've been get, have you and she been getting along pretty well?
 Good because one of my memories is that when she was living down here, sometimes she could be pretty rough on you sometimes, is that -
 Has that gotten better since she's moved down?
 Okay.  Okay.  Well, I hope if she does move back that at least she'll be kind to you and -
 And not be hard on you.  Okay.  So have you been getting together with any other people recently?
 Okay, good.  Do you get together with them pretty regularly?  Or maybe -
 Good.  And at work, are you around other people, or are you pretty much by yourself?
 Okay.  And, [PATIENT NAME], how many hours a week are you working now?
 Okay.  And how's work going?
 Okay.  Good.  Um, how have your spirits been holding up?  Have you been feeling happy, or sad, or somewhere in the middle?
 Purpose in life?
 Okay.  Well, that can be tough, [PATIENT NAME].  Sometimes -
 It's hard for us to know why, know what our life's purpose is.  I think sometimes we don't discover it right off the bat or even for many years sometimes.
 Are there things that you look forward to doing each day, or each week?
 Okay.  Um, when you get together with [NAME OTHER], do you enjoy your time with him?
 Okay.  Are there any hobbies right now that you have or interests that you do in your spare time?
 Okay.  What do you do when you come home from work in the evening?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Uh, now you have kitties too don't you?
 How many?
 Four.  Do you enjoy spending time with them?
 Good.  Are they indoor kitties, or do they go outdoors?
 Okay.  Around here that's probably best -
 There is so many wild animals.
 Okay.  Do you think that could be part of your purpose in life is to take care of them?
 Okay.  Okay.  Um, are you sleeping okay at night?
 Okay.  And how's your appetite been overall?
 Okay.  [PATIENT NAME], do you ever weigh yourself to know how much you weigh?
 Okay.  Do you remember when the last time was that you did check your weight?
 Okay, so you figure you probably put on about 10 pounds since then?
 Okay.  Okay, and, [PATIENT NAME], when you're at work are you able to concentrate and focus okay?
 Okay.  Have you been worry, worrying about things much, or not too much?
 Yeah.
 When is that scheduled for again?
 Okay.  Okay.  So, you have a pretrial hearing tomorrow, and then the reschedule date for the trial?
 Okay.  Okay.  Um, do you know if you're going to have to go back and testify or not, or if they're going to do a deposition here, or have you heard?
 Okay.  Have, did the detectives call you and kind of keep you updated on what's happening?
 Okay.
 Okay.  Okay.  Is there anything else that you're worrying about these days, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Is it because you don't have the energy or motivation or something else?
 Okay.
 Okay.  [COUGHING].  Excuse me.  [PATIENT NAME], do you feel sad much these days, or not too much?
 Okay.  Do you feel happy more than sad, or sad more than happy?
 Okay.  And do you think that sadness comes from being alone or do you know?
 Okay.  Yeah, it sounds like you do end up spending a fair amount of time by yourself and -
 Um, okay.  What I'm thinking about, [PATIENT NAME], is the, the Paxil that you take -
 That has benefits both for depression and anxiety.
 And right now, you're on 40 mg, which is an average dose.  We can go up as high as 80, and 1 of the thoughts I'm having is, should we increase the dose a little bit to see if it would give you a little bit more support with the depression and maybe feeling, help you feel a little bit happier and not so sad.  How do you feel about that?
 Well, the Loxitane usually would help prevent that.
 Um, so, it's not likely you would become manic.  I can't say 100% that you wouldn't.  That's always a risk with increasing an antidepressant.  But, um, our options would be to either leave it where it is or to try increasing the dose, or we could also add something else in if you wanted to, to try to boost it's effectiveness to help it be more effective.  That's another option.  If you feel like it's not helping enough.  Do you feel like your depression is reasonably well controlled most of the time, or do you feel like it's causing you some problems?
 Oh, a fair number, I guess.  Why do you ask?
 You're right.
 Some people are more down on days like this.
 And some aren't, it just depends.  Everybody's a little different.  Do you find yourself feeling more down on days where it's kind of gray like this?
 Okay.  So on days when it's a little sunnier, and a little nicer, you, that tends to lift your spirits?
 Okay, well, [PATIENT NAME], if you decide you want to wait then and not change your medicine we could because, hopefully, these kind of days are coming to an end as the season gets warmer and warmer.
 That's usually the next step, if, if we decide to increase it.
 Um, I mean, and I sure don't want things to get worse for you either, [PATIENT NAME], in terms of becoming more manic.  And again, I can't tell you for sure whether that would happen or not.  Hopefully it would not, but that's one of the risks that we have to be careful about.  If you want to wait another month or so and see how things go, we could, in the hope that some of this stress may pass with the trial.  Stress may pass, and also, if the weather gets a little bit warmer, that might help lift your spirits as well.
 It does, you're right, [PATIENT NAME], it does, and it often lifts our spirits.
 Again, if you want to try some things like exercise -
 Wait for a little bit nicer weather and -
 We can do, would you rather do that, do you think?
 Okay, that's fine.  Have you been having any thoughts of not wanting to live, or suicidal thoughts, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Are they more passive thoughts, like if you'd get hit by a truck and could be way out of this, or are they thoughts of taking your own life?
 Okay.  If those start to get stronger, will you let me know, so that we can do something about it because I don't want those thoughts to get any stronger?  Those are an indication of depression.  So, [PATIENT NAME], will you give me your word, you'll let me know of those get stronger?  Okay.  I just want to make sure that, that the depression doesn't get any worse because if it does, there are things we can do to help pull out of it.
 You don't have to struggle or suffer with it.  Um, okay, what about, have you had any problems with voices recently, hearing voices?
 Okay.
 Or feeling unsafe at your home, or at work?
 Okay.  So worried about the people back there that -
 Took advantage of you?  Okay.  That's understandable.  Okay.  Um, yes, it sounds like you're going through kind of a hard time now because of the trial, because of being alone.  A lot of things are kind of stressful and hard right now.  Not having a lot of people to do things with, or fun things to do.  Um, [PATIENT NAME], I think it's reasonable to give it another month, but, again, if you're not feeling better next month, let's not just, keep waiting.  Let's do something different to try and get you feeling better.  Okay?
 Because I don't want you to feel more and more depressed either.  That doesn't help you at all, for sure.  Is there anything else going on that I haven't asked you about that you want to talk about?
 Um -
 Okay.  So, just on Fridays and Saturdays, smoke pot?
 Okay.  Well, [PATIENT NAME], 1 thing to know about that is, unfortunately, the pot can interfere with the medicines -
 And sometimes it can cause people to feel more depressed or even not have as clear of thoughts.
 And it can even sometimes cause people to have suicidal thoughts.
 In some people.  Do you feel like you could give that up for a while, at least until the stress gets a little bit less in your life?
 Okay.  That would be my suggestion to -
 I'm not asking you to quit forever, but for right now, when things are pretty, pretty hard, it might be good to stay away from the pot -
 To allow your brain chemistry to kind of balance out again -
 And hopefully move, and come back up, and make it easier to cope with some of the hard stress you're going through.
 Okay.  Did, you're not a big drinker of alcohol, are you?
 Do you drink any, or almost none?
 Okay.  You're not using any other drugs besides the marijuana?
 Okay.  Okay.  Yeah, the pot sometimes can help people feel better in the short run -
 But in the long run som, unfortunately, it's a depressant on the brain because it depletes the brain of certain chemicals that regulate mood.
 Like serotonin, and so, the medicines are trying to get those chemicals up, but the pot cause the chemicals to be released, and so the medicine doesn't work very well.
 So if we remove the, the pot the Paxil will probably work better and we won't have to increase the dose.
 So, okay.  Well then, why don't we leave your medicine the way it is for now; give you a chance to, um, try exercise and giving up the pot; get through these great cloudy days.  Hopefully some warm weather is coming I think.
 And check back in a month and see how you feel.  Does that sound okay?
 Okay.  Was there anything else you want to talk about before we set up another appointment, [NAME OTHER]?
 Okay.  Now, let's aim for about a month from now.  That's right towards the end of May, or first part of June.  And remind me; is there a day of the week that works best for you?
 Okay.  And after what time about, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Okay.  Um, let's see here.  It looks like the first time that I would have that this would work for you would be, uh, Thursday [DATE] at 3:00.  Do you think that might work?
 Okay.  I' m sorry, you said 2:30 and on?
 Would you rather do 2:30 than 3:00 or -
 Okay, well, we'll just do the, let me double check here.  And why don't we just do the 3:00.  Thursday, [DATE] at 3:00.  Okay, [PATIENT NAME], and there's the card.
 Yeah.  Well, it's hard when you're alone on the weekends, you know, again the things that might help, again, uh, even though I know the pot sometimes makes people feel better -
 That's why people smoke, to get high, but unfortunately, like I said, in the long run, it's a depressant on the brain and the nevous systems, so -
 If you give it up, you may, [COUGHING], excuse me, over time you may actually start feeling better, [PATIENT NAME].
 And then also you may be more able to get out and do something.  Maybe to be around people, go somewhere, do something, or exercise even, which would help with your mood more.
 So what you could try this week is maybe do some exercise.  Do something you enjoy doing.  Going for a walk or biking or swimming or something like that that you would really enjoy, and that might help you feel better.
 Okay?  So why don't you try that this month and, so if you feel any worse in the meantime, call me, but I'm hoping that we can get you feeling better this month.
 All right?  Okay, [PATIENT NAME], it's always good seeing you.
 You're welcome.  I'll look forward to seeing you next month -
 And please call again, [PATIENT NAME], if you need anything before then.  Okay?
 You're welcome.  See you later.
 Bye, bye.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Okay, thanks.  Let me have that.  Okay, uh, so how old are you, [PATIENT NAME]?
 [AGE]?
 [AGE].
 What's your date of birth, it's -
 [DATE]?
 Okay, are you single, married?
 And, um, you were referred by [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] or by your PO?
 Okay.  How long have you known her?
 Okay, okay.  Um, and you're on probation right now -
 When did you get out of prison and start probation?
 Okay, what was the charge against you?
 Okay.  And, um, are you on any medications right now?
 By any doctor?
 Okay, all right.  What's your living situation?  Do you live with anyone?
 Is that your cousin out there?  Okay.
 Your cousin, and are you working right now?
 Okay.  What's your understanding of why [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] referred you to me?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Anxiety, okay.  Have you been treated for this in the past?
 Okay, have you ever seen a psychiatrist before?
 Okay, well, let, let's go back.  Uh, um, I mean, when's the first time you saw a therapist or psychiatrist?  How old were you?
 Okay, and was that through probation?  Okay.  And, um, have you ever been on medications for depression?
 You said you were on some medicine, what was that for?
 What medical problems?
 Um-hum.
 So what did they, was it pain medications you were on?
 Okay.
 Okay, how, did that clear up that problem?
 Okay, well, would you say you're depressed?
 Do you feel depressed yourself?  Like on a scale from 1 to 10, where 1 is the worse you could ever feel and 10 is the best, where would you say you are right now?
 Okay.  Why are you depressed now?
 Um-hum, like what's been going wrong lately?  There's a Kleenex right over there if you want.
 Because you didn't fill out the tax thing right?
 Well, so are you threatened to go in jail because of that or [INAUDIBLE]?
 Um-hum, and, um, what other things are going on?
 Um-hum.  How old are you kids?
 You have [AGE] and [AGE], are they twins?
 You have a [AGE] and triplets that are [AGE].  Are they all living with you, with your cousin?
 And you who else lives at home then?
 So there's quite a few there.  Okay.  Um, okay.  Are you, um, going out with anyone right now?
 Okay.  Um, I mean, is this just recently you've been feeling depressed or has it been going for a long, long time?
 Your grandmother?  When was that?
 Okay.  Did she sort of raise you a lot?
 Okay.  And prior to that, before that, did you ever have these sort of depressive symptoms or feelings, but afterwards you just have had that a lot.  Okay.  Um, well, let's talk about some symptoms.  How, how has your sleep been?
 No sleep.
 Okay, uh -
 How is your energy?
 Okay, appetite?
 Have you lost weight?
 Okay, um, crying spells?  Do you cry a lot?  Suicidal thoughts?
 How would you do it?
 When was that?
 Were you -
 Were you hospitalized for that?  So you just took an overdose but nothing came of it?
 Okay, okay.  Two thousand -
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Um, when is the last time you were feeling good?
 Of this year?  What, what happened then that you were feeling good?
 Just for like 1 day?  Okay, how do you remember that day?
 Okay, so you just kind of -
 Hm.  How is he doing?
 How about in your family?  How many brothers and sisters do you have?
 I know, but how many full brothers and sisters do you have?
 And where are you in your family?
 Do any of them have a history of seeing a psychiatrist?
 Suicide?
 Hm, um, how about your parents?  Did they have a history of seeing a psychiatrist?
 Okay, was there alcohol problems in the family?  Did your parents drink or -
 Your mother?  How about with you?  Um, is alcohol a problem?  Have you ever had a problem with alcohol?
 How about cocaine?
 I mean, did you have a problem with it at one point?  Pot?  When's the last time you did any drugs?
 What did you do?
 How about prior to before that?  You know, would you say you do that once a week?
 Uh-huh, for how long?
 Had you gotten in trouble previously for having dirty urine?  With PO?  Okay.
 Hm.  [INAUDIBLE]?
 What?
 Oh, that's okay.  That's, [INAUDIBLE] okay, um, and you've never been treated with any medications for this depression.  I mean, you certainly do look very depressed and, um, are you able to get any enjoyment out of life?
 As soon, as soon as you begin to get some enjoyment, things go down?  Okay, um, and a lot of anxiety you were saying?  Okay.  Other symptoms that you're having?
 Okay.  How about, do you hear voices?
 What do the voices say?
 What do -
 Right, where, um, where do you think those voice are coming from?
 Do you think they're your own thoughts?  Do you think people are out to get you?
 Like, who's out to get you?
 All right, I mean, that they're actually out to get you or they just kind of -
 When you walk -
 All right, take it.
 When you walk down the street do you think people talk about you behind your back?
 Do you think the r, the TV or radio talks about you?  Do you get any special messages?
 Certain songs, like in your head?  Do you think you have any special powers or abilities?  Um, okay.  Do you think things can get better?  No.  Well, let's see, I, I mean, obviously, you have a lot of symptoms of depression so I think we should treat it.  Sometimes when we call an exogenous depression meaning all these bad things happen to you.  When they go on long enough, you can develop an endogenous depression meaning it comes from the inside and, um, that's why, uh, [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] was referring you because, um, medications can be helpful with that and so I'm going to start a medication called fluoxetine, and you take it once a day and it doesn't work overnight, but over the next week or two you can start feeling better and better and it can help your appetite and your sleep.  Um, and usually it's pretty well tolerated.  If you happen to have a bad reaction to it or don't like it, you can stop it and give me a call and we can talk about what to do or something else, but it really does help a lot of people.  I could also give you maybe on a short term basis some medicine to help you with sleep.  Uh, maybe some clonazepam, like a half a mg to take at bedtime, because I know if you're not sleeping well, things just aren't going to go well.  I, I can't help you with all your other problems, those you're, you're going to have to kind of work out with your PO and stuff, um, and it sounds like some of it is a lot of misunderstanding.  Um, so you bought this car, so that sounds like, did that make your PO unhappy because of the tax issues and stuff?  Okay, uh, who is your PO?
 All right, I mean, do you get along with her?  Did she kind of feel that was an irresponsible thing to do, to buy the car?  So you said you don't have a boyfriend.  Let me ask some other personal questions.  Are you using birth control?  If you do have sex, what do you, do you use a condom?  All right, because you know if you don't, you get pregnant.  How about your, I know you have three [AGE] girls, how old were you when you first got pregnant?
 Yeah, so you know, that, have you talked to them at all about, are they sexually active, do you know?
 You don't think they are, but, you know, they're right on the cusp of that so it's really important that, you know -
 All right, but if they do start going out, you know, you should talk to them about birth control and maybe take them in for those things, because, you know, that's what tends to happen is you get, you know, you've had a kid when you were young.  I'm sure that happened to your parents.  Your mom and they -
 When she had her first kid or -
 Okay.
 Okay, and certainly staying away from drugs, especially cocaine, because that depletes these neurotransmitters in your brain and really doesn't, it makes things just worse and plus it's going to get you in trouble with the PO.  All right, so let me, um, give you, now, uh, you don't have any, you're not on Title 19 or anything are you?  Okay.  The probation will pay for the medication that I'm prescribing you.  You can get that filled here at the pharmacy today.  Um, let me put you in my computer here.  It's [DEIDENTIFIED], is your, right?
 Okay.  [INAUDIBLE].
 Who was that?
 Your son?
 Okay.  Um, so, um, you take these prescriptions down to the pharmacy.  One, just follow the directions, you take once a day in the morning and the other one you can take at, not, bedtime for sleep.  You take it just prior to going to bed, just before going to bed, and hopefully with catching up on your sleep and with the antidepressant, the next time I see you, you'll start to be feeling a little bit better.  But it only works if you take it.  Um, [INAUDIBLE].  Do you have any questions with that?  Okay.
 It's um -
 Did you park in the parking structure?
 It, then you got one of those, those, uh, things?
 You did valet parking?  It's right around there.  When you head back that way, I'll kind of show you, um, just before you kind of get to that bridge where you did the valet parking, you make a left and you'll see there's a pharmacy there and you give this to them and they'll give you a months' worth of medication for free.
 Well, I don't, I, I validate, but the not, if, not the valet parking.  Did they actually come and park your car for you?  Yeah, that, that I think they charge you $2 or something for that.  Uh, next time if you park in the parking structure and you bring that to me I can stamp it and I think it's only $1.  Um, and let's set up another appointment.  So you're number is [DEIDENTIFIED]?  Is that your cell phone?
 Okay, so we can leave messages for you there too?
 Okay.  And what if I saw you, 1, 2, 3, uh, I'll be out of town in 4 weeks.  What if I saw you, Wednesday, [DATE] at 11:30?  Think you can make that?  If you can't, I'll give you my card, just leave me a massage.  Um, let's go Wednesday, [DATE] at 11:30, right here.  Okay, so here's my card and if there's a problem with the medication you can give me a call and leave me a message and your telephone number and then if you take this to the pharmacy, they'll fill the medications.  Just follow the directions.  Okay?
 And hopefully you'll start to, you know, be feeling a little bit better when you see me again, you, you'll be able to deal with some of the issues that you have.  Okay.
 Okay, let's stay away from the cocaine.  That's not going to help things.  Um -
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Okay, [PATIENT NAME], how have you been doing?
 What's going on?
 What kind of rehab?  What is he on?
 Oh.
 Um-hum.
 Where does he go that late time?
 Wait a minute.  You let, he lives with you?
 And he goes like that?
 How old is he, you say?
 And you don't know what he's doing?
 And you, you do go pick him up every ni, every night, you say.
 No.  You got to put some kind of boundary.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 So has he been already accepted in some kind of -
 With your depression, that's no good.  You been not taking medicine, are you?
 Um-hum.
 You've been taking them, though?
 How many do you take?
 You're supposed to take 2.
 Why?
 Right.
 Oh.  Hello?  Hello?  Sorry.
 With all this happening.  How are your daughters doing?
 Good.
 Well, you look so depressed, and you're crying.
 And -
 No, that's okay.  I mean, you know, what I'm saying is -
 We haven't seen you since November, right?
 And ah -
 Yeah.
 Mmm.
 Your brother's cousin?
 Okay.
 I know.
 It hits, it hits more home because your son is in it -
 So that makes it even hard for you.
 Are you able to do the things around the house, cooking and cleaning and -
 Whose baby is that?
 And how are you sleeping with all this depression and -
 What thoughts?  What do you mean?
 You're not thinking about killing yourself?
 That's a lot of pressure on you.
 Where is your husband?  Where does your husband fit in all this?  Does he help you out?
 What's going on with him?
 Well, at least have him, he can go and pick him up at night.  There's nothing wrong in -
 Wait a minute.  But [PATIENT NAME], I just don't like the idea about you letting him go.  You don't know where he goes.  And you go pick him up every night at 4:00?  There's something is wrong.
 Is this kid working?
 Then what does he do all day?
 Yeah.  Okay.  Okay.
 Drugs.
 Come on, what do you mean you don't have a -
 I know [INAUDIBLE].
 You know what?  I understand -
 And you are putting all your 100% in this rehab that is going to go.  Now, how many times your husband has relapsed?
 What makes you so sure that you can let him do the drugs now, and then come [DATE] or whenever that is, boom, the miracle.
 He wants to get away from drugs?
 And into -
 But he still goes every day.
 I know.
 Oh, he's in [DEINDENTIFIED]?
 Is that the 1 who's going to -
 Oh, do you know where that is?
 [INAUDIBLE]?
 [DEIDENTIFIED].
 They've been through something like this.
 Right.
 My goodness, you've been thinking too much.
 The peacemaker in the whole house.
 And trying to -
 Trying to protect everybody but you.
 Number 1, let me tell you 1 thing.  You've got to come here regularly, no matter what it take.  You got to take the medication just the way it's prescribed because all this, you, and you have been struggling you depression how long?
 I know.  I've been -
 But you, you can, you saw [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], and she's not -
 You've been seeing her now?
 Come and see her regularly because that's gonna help you.
 Because I've been seeing you for last 2 years -
 At least, for depression.  Right?  Going on [INAUDIBLE].
 And even before then you were in treatment, so the thing is, I know you are under a lot of stress, and understandably, some of it is -
 Ah, nowhere to go, and you are trying to protect everyone.  And that's is -
 Well, just let's get you going regular; take regularly medication.
 Um, now let's see.  You've been, all the time you've been on Zoloft.
 I think done bad on Zoloft.
 Especially when you took 2.
 Go back to your thing.
 In your chart, and when you were taking 2, you were doing much better with [INAUDIBLE].
 Number 1, you're going to continue taking the medicine.
 We need to bring your, no matter what it takes.  I can always call in your -
 Well, um, you mentioned that since taking Abilify you've had some nausea and I think -
 Vomiting and -
 I think that's probably more likely due to be from anxiety cause I think you have extreme anxiety going on.
 How much of the Xanax are you taking now, we had 2 mg four times a day, you're not taking that much though.
 At one point it was four, whatever [INAUDIBLE] -
 About how many total bars do you think you go through on an average day?
 Like a couple a day thereabouts.
 Yeah, I'm all for that.  I think you're -
 Right, right.
 We'll keep you with some extra.  I think that you probably wanna bail yourself out of -
 That's fine.  I think stress is probably what's showing.  You're obviously anxious.
 Do not ever take more of that chlorohydrate [INAUDIBLE] -
 You get away with that with Ambien but not with chlorohydrate.  
 Yeah.
 Yeah, well you're so wound up.  I think it's the anxiety.
 Well, it's not your body, it's your mind.  Your brain.
 That could well be part of it.
 You are going to start crying.
 You're definitely wound and -
 And you're not getting more than an hour or two of sleep?
 Well -
 [PATIENT NAME] there's probably not anything real tricky to that.
 Yeah, I think -
 You might have hit the nail on the hand with that Zoloft being overstimulating and I think that's the bigger problem.  The sleeping pills aren't helping you sleep anyway so you're not in withdrawal cause the only withdrawal you have is not being able to sleep.  You're already not sleeping anyway so it can't get much worse, right?
 Okay, well I think maybe getting that Zoloft down, I mean we could try something different.  Vistaril sometimes works with that -
 You could see that with the 100 Zoloft too, though.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Another good reason to cut that down.
 No, I realize that.
 Yeah.
 Unfortunately in deed, cause it did seem to work for you.  Um, if you read up on that a little further, granted the first use is for, Abilify, Zyprexa and drugs of that nature, Geodon, were antipsychotic and you're not psychotic, I agree with that.  Um, but they are not used as much for mood stabilizers as they are for psychosis.  And Abilify, another good thought with the Zoloft, um, Abilify in some recent studies has shown to have a FDA approval for treatment in bipolar depression and have anti-depressant effects but not the sort like Zoloft which could flip you into mania.
 It's an anti-manic drug.
 Something can be said for that.  It's probably -
 It's hard enough trying to figure you out, I can't figure him out.
 Good.
 Okay.
 It might make your life a little more complicated at the time when you don't need it right now.
 Okay, but do not ever take more than [INAUDIBLE] -
 It is not a safe drug to take excessive amounts of, uh Anna Nicole Smith -
 Well, I think we need to give the Abilify a chance and like you said, I think you might have come up with something or other that the Zoloft may be overstimulating you and particularly since we know Abilify has anti-depressant effects any way, you probably won't have that crying.  
 Well, we could go into a bunch of [INAUDIBLE] I can't diagnose him - 
 And I think you got some fairly good reasons for all of that -
 Right, but what we need to do, regardless of [INAUDIBLE] -
 You need to focus on it, exactly.
 I'd be as inclined right now -
 Well, I wouldn't go cold turkey on the Xanax.  That could be [INAUDIBLE] -
 Yeah, they're not working anyway so the only problem you have is not being able to sleep so it wouldn't be any worse than it already is.  But I think right now -
 No, maybe, but, then again we gotta slow things down to where you're not [INAUDIBLE] -
 Hmm, that's odd.
 Normally they cost two or three tomes more 
 Right, there's no point adding new drugs if it doesn't help 
 What has worked -
 I think if we got a little bit of Zyprexa for a few days to allow that Zoloft to stabilize, that might be the trick -
 Yeah, with the Abilify.  But go ahead and use the Zyprexa like a sleeping pill.  We could go ahead and check your blood sugar right now make sure that is not being, not elevated, that can be a long term side effect of Zyprexa but I'm not thinking long term, I'm thinking in terms of a week.
 Couple years, right.  I'm thinking in terms of a week.  Allow that Zoloft -
 You take anything for diabetes now?
 Glucophage, yeah -
 Let's check it now and see where -
 That's a non-fasting, might be a little bit higher than the absolute norm, but you know, if it's not up there around 150, 180, I wouldn't sweat it too much.
 You're diabetic, you shouldn't be eating chocolate covered peanuts, so -
 Okay.  
 All righty.
 Good, well you can keep an eye on it over the next few days also, but I think, you know, it's a long term effect, something like a week would have virtually no effects.
 Well you have to have a glucose challenge fasting and all that good stuff.
 See where we stand today.
 90.
 So I don't think they need to worry about it long term
 I think we're okay with that.  Let's um -
 Yeah, very good, it sounds like maintain -
 The diet and [INAUDIBLE] -
 All right.  Well let's get the Zyprexa going for let's say a week and get you some sleep.  Get that Zoloft down -
 Um, well when are we scheduled for checkup?
 Okay, let's shoot for next week then, and we will just keeping taking the Zyprexa pill then.
 Well we will worry about today's problems today.
 Do you have, do you still have some Zyprexa at home you said, right?
 Fives, so let's go with 7.5 at night just using that for sleep.  Try taking the Xanax three times a day or divide it out for you know, but you know, three pills a day, 6 mg.  Get that anxiety under control.  Little Zyprexa on board, some sleep, everything kind of calmed down the Zoloft.
 No, you can take chips as long as you get, you know, take three pills a day where you can divide them up, chip here chip there whatever, I don't care.
 Whatever seems best for you.  
 But for now let's go to three a day, get the anxiety under control.
 One day at a time.
 One day at a time.
 Okay, here we go.
 Xanax -
 Hindsight is twenty twenty.  Here we have Xanax three a day.  May divide any way you feel fit, Zoloft 50 mg, Abilify 15, we continue that, and then Zyprexa 7.5.  This will help with sleep. Getting that -
 They're not working, that's the main thing, so let's check back next week and I think that you'll see that anxiety start to come down, the Zyprexa getting in your system -
 You will have to check [NAME OTHER] on that, she'll fill you in sometime next week.
 Yeah.  We'll decide from there where we go.
 Sounds like a plan then.
 So, um, at present you're 47 obviously.
 Oh, okay. All right. You're full time employed, right?
 And you were first diagnosed you had bipolar diagnosed was when?
 Approximately.
 So bipolar was diagnosed in 1999.
 Same thing. Same thing. Um, since then until you saw me first time in July of, no not July, yeah, July of 2005, that 6 year, had you had any psychiatric hospitalization between 1999 and 2005?
 How many?
 One hospital admission. And you have attempted suicide during that period of time?
 So you never attempted?
 Okay. And I saw you on July of 2005, at that time you had major depression.
 That's a layman's term, yes. And I thought that you had bipolar type II. And the last visit I had with you in the office was.
 Uh, September 25. Now tell me what happened between September 25 and now. What things are kind of falling apart?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Like what? Give me an example.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 At this time is it your main concern about her safety or through her safety you are trying to draw my attention that you are also thinking in the same line?
 As if you are thinking, to simplify, are you concerned about her committing suicide or are you thinking about you committing suicide?
 Do you have such ideas now?
 What happened to your dad?
 What happened to your younger brother?
 Is it accidental death or intentional, your brother?
 Um-hum.
 And you had another brother die?
 So you are sure, this is for sure that your father died of self inflicted gunshot wound?
 Your younger brother died of alcohol poisoning, but you are not absolutely sure that that's a suicide or not?
 How old was he when he died?
 Wow. And the older brother, um, died in penitentiary?
 And that was, you're sure was suicide?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 How did he get drugs in a penitentiary?
 Describe your mood now.
 How sad or mad are you now?
 If I give you a scale of 1 to 10, 10 the worst sadness or depression you ever had, where are you today?
 And how angry are you in the same scale 1 to 10?
 I'm asking the number.
 Take your time.
 How many days - 
 How many days has been that you have not had good sleep?
 You went to sleep and wake up rested in the morning.
 Tell me what kind of sleep you have since our last visit.
 What about 2 weeks ago?
 Your daughter? [INAUDIBLE].
 Um.
 How have you, last 2 weeks, total how much sleep you had?
 Best guess.
 So on an average you are getting anywhere between 2 to 4 hours per day?
 Are you having any racing thoughts in your mind?
 When was the last time you had a very racing thoughts in your mind that 10 million things going on?
 And these constant thoughts are related to what?
 What did she say, your wife?
 So she's going back into the past and.
 And holding you responsible for your affairs?
 Um, that's a tough call.
 Um, I'm not giving you my opinion.
 The reason I used that term is I have heard such behavior considered as affair and I have heard such behavior considered as I'm single so I had a relationship.
 Yes, and I have heard both sides. 
 And the question is, I am not a person to pass a judgment on this because no matter what the tradition is, my job is to bring stability to may patient's life and not judge them from the moral and legal standpoint. My focus is only medical and medical only. Okay. Are you having any kind of hallucinations now that you are hearing voices?
 How about seeing something unusual or bizarre when you are awake?
 Right.
 Like you know, as if a shadow walking around and your wife sees nothing there.
 Paranoia that somebody is after you?
 Are you having any kind of panic attack now?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 And look at me and tell me and this is no rambling, straight, when was the last time you seriously considered killing yourself? No rambling. I know you carry a gun so I need an answer straight. It is very critically important question for me.
 Tell me a little bit more about that. What was going on through your mind at that time? Was that before or after the session that I had on 9/25?
 That was before the last session?
 After. Why do.
 What stopped you from doing that?
 And where is the gun now?
 How tall are you now?
 Um-hum.
 And your present weight?
 You have gained or lost any weight in 6 months?
 Steady?
 At present you are taking Lexapro 20 in the morning, right?
 You take it in the morning or at night?
 Right, but what do you do?
 And the Seroquel is 500mg at bedtime.
 Five hundred mg?
 And your Xanax XR.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Fine. This is what I absolutely have to do. And that is before you go home today we need to have a talk with your wife and I need an absolute assurance from her that until I clear you will have no access to any guns. This is a temporary restriction. I am not taking away your guns from you. I am trying to do everything in my capacity to keep you alive so that I can stabilize the situation. And I didn't know about this gun issue even yesterday.
 Let's put it this way. Whatever major of the problem you have you are seeing 1 person and 1 person only and that's you. I have seen similar situations hundreds of time maybe even thousands of times. And I appreciate your confidence in me. Some of the things I have to do may not be very pleasant for you, but I will absolutely need your cooperation. 
 Let me put it this way. Right this minute I have no plan of hospitalizing you, but 5 minutes from now if things change my decision can change as well. One thing I will not compromise and I will do whatever it takes and that is to keep you alive. Rest everything is negotiable.
 You have.
 I am not going to impose anything on you except if I'm concerned about your safety that 1 point there will be no negotiation. I'll do whatever it takes to keep you alive.
 I don't want you to die either.
 Yknow, we have had hospitalization but I have known you for about pretty good 4 years now and you have worked, you have stayed away from drug and alcohol, you have not been hospitalized, you have [INAUDIBLE] person with bipolar disorder. That is remarkable achievement.
 And you're still on the medicine.
 That's what I'm talking about.
 Have you ever been on Depakote?
 No. Depakote.
 Okay. This is the situation I want to do. As I mentioned, that you stayed well I believe because of Seroquel. But Seroquel is not number 1 mood stabilizer. You are on a decent antidepressant medication. And you are tolerating it and because of this extra stress you're falling apart. 
 If we use Lithium or any other type of medication on that class, every single one of them has to be started at a very small dose - 
 Let me finish, let me finish, small dose, and then over a period of 3 to 4 weeks we go to that number where we want to be. There's one exception. And exception is Depakote. Depakote can be done that way. That is start on a smaller dose and build up. Or you can start on the start on a whopping big dose and then come down. And I want to use that. I'm going to approach that way because you say that your weight is 200 pounds. 
 It was down to about, um, close to 90kg or so. I'll be using 1,000mg Depakote twice a day. It's a very high dose. Okay. The reason I'm doing it is if it works by this time next week you will be stable.
 I'm coming to that.
 And after 5 days I need to do a blood test. But I have to do that, no choice.
 Let me finish.
 No, no, no, I'm using it now Depakote because I do not have any other choice to start on a high dose. But I'm not looking at keeping you on the Depakote for a length of time and get blood work done. It's more like a semi-crisis management mode I'm taking. Five to 6 days from now when you're stable I will start you on a different medicine. And slowly build up on that one. That particular medicine could be Topamax, could be Gabitril or Lamictal. 
 One of them. None of those three means any blood test. But the Depakote you have to allow me to do your blood test at least 1 time. That might be it the way I'm planing. That might be it. But we might have to do 1 more blood test if the initial numbers come back bad.
 That's right.
 Every single psychiatric medication that we use has side effect.
 Side effect. And as I've mentioned, because you're somewhat overweight I'm not going to use Depakote for long term because Depakote can cause weight gain. 
 But this is I'm looking at keeping your Depakote maybe a month and then taking it away. But if I had any other agent that I can start on a higher dose that can stabilize you quickly without any blood test I would have done it. But Depakote is only one I can do that. I cannot start on a large dose of Lithium. I cannot start on a large dose of Lamictal or Topamax or anything. And I cannot just start and build when you're suffering now. You cannot tell that you suffer for 3 weeks before I get the medicine to where it can be.
 You can use the Medco, I have no problem the way it is, Medco will be asking you to use, um, 90 day supply at a time. I don't like to keep you on 90 days of Depakote.
 Okay, I'll double check on that. So.
 Do you need, do you have, um, enough Lexapro at home for, how much time does it take for Medco to give you the medicines? Typically a week, 10days, 2 weeks?
 Do you have 2 weeks of Lexapro?
 Right. Seroquel. Yeah, I got plenty. Yeah.
 Just keep me posted, I might have some sample I might give you.
 Okay.
 How about Xanax?
 Okay.
 I have to check, I don't know. 
 I'm going to give you, so you want to buy locally or you want to wait for Medco for the delivery?
 I want you to start [INAUDIBLE] those today, full dose should be now kind of thing. And, um, let me see if I have any samples or not. Let me check. Doubt I'll have sample. [INAUDIBLE]. These papers went, oh, I already signed your [INAUDIBLE] paper.
 Yeah. It came to me yesterday.
 Is your wife working now or she is at home?
 What time she get done?
 But we can reach her?
 Okay. We will make the phone call before you leave here. You are not going home until I get assurance that all the guns are out of your reach.
 Do we have any Depakote. All right. Um, I need that assurance because this is one of those.
 Well, when we are in problem we use family. We don't, okay, thanks bye. Sorry, I don't have any samples. I have to write you a prescription and I want you to start today. Okay?
 Any questions? So these are the things will happen. You will stay on Lexapro, Seroquel, and the Xanax as they are. I'll write you the prescription and Depakote I want you to start right away.
 Depakote.
 No, D E P A K O T E.
 Not difficult.
 It's mood stabilizer. What it does is it can enforce your mood in here doesn't let you get too angry or too sad.
 Um-hum.
 It will.
 Um-hum.
 Let's talk. You're not going back to work for now. We'll talk about it as of when it comes.
 For now, number 1, Lexapro, Seroquel, and the Xanax the way you're taking, it stays that way. 
 You start the Depakote this morning, 1,000mg in the morning and 1,000 at night.
 Okay. The afternoon will be fine, but you start today. We'll get in touch with your son who's a policeman to ensure.
 Before you go home I want an assurance that all the guns are out of your reach, not permanently, but temporarily and they will stay out of your reach until I clear you.
 Thank you.
 I understand you wanted to talk about how you'd use your time. Could you fill me in a little bit on maybe what you're life is like, your daily routine?
 You'd like to stop.
 You've been a very responsible person for a long time. 
 You'd like to recapture some of that playfulness.
 Tell me what you imagine you'd be doing. What would that play look like?
 Very relaxed. 
 So maybe you would take that big a change going to a whole different place where the lifestyle was different to get you to just settle down a little bit. [0:02:00]
 Tired of taking care of people. 
 So with the time you have left, you'd like to really enjoy that time.
 And not be so responsible for schedules and working all the time. 
 It sounds like it's also quieting that inside, that noisy chatter that's there all the time.
 (inaudible at 0:04:00). 
 Oh, okay. Is moving to another country feasible for you?
 That's the culture you live in here. This is probably one of the more intense work oriented parts of the country too. You're living in an environment that makes that more difficult. And moving somewhere else where life is more laid back, and people don't live just to work is part of that dream. 
 Right.
 So what did you do?
 So that's somewhere you're thinking now changing the environment may make it easiest. 
 You mentioned depression several times. In what ways is that affecting you now? 
 Yeah, what you experience. 
 Sleeping problems. 
 There's something powerful here that does. There's some draw to a dream or a vision of some kind of what you want for yourself. 
 You seem quite healthy and energetic. 
 Wow. Great.
 Tell me about that space. It sounds like these are times when something changes and it's very difficult. [0:12:32]
 It was seeing yourself in her? 
 That's what you'd like to see accept the children as they are?
 Your parents get smarter as you get older. 
 So part of what was painful about that was seeing in her some aspect of yourself?
 They closed you out.
 All alone in the world.
 You've been through too many remarkable things in your life. You really are a survivor. And I'm trying to get hold now what it is you are looking for in your future. How would you like things to be different for you in a few years? [0:17:07]
 No, I'm certainly here for you. 
 You're such a powerful woman. (inaudible at 0:17:26). If you stay in the same place, you know you don't change. 
 In spite of all the things you've tried because you've obviously done quite a bit to work with yourself with the Tia chi, acupuncture, and therapy, meditation.
 That's right. 
 Maybe that feels like vanity somehow in a difficult situation. 
 It's turned out well now. 
 So you're feeling now like it's really time to stop that. 
 What stands in your way? 
 Into realty.
 So that wound up being a trap too.
 It's the same pattern. 
 Everyone else. [0:24:15]
 You're both stuck. 
 What did he want you to do? 
 What you want to do is get out from under all the responsibility and with the time you have left have a better life, a more relaxed life. You want to play a little. [0:25:16]
 So that probably wouldn't be enough of a change. 
 (inaudible at 0:25:41).
 It seems like that life that you wanted there's no way to do it here. No way to work a while and then have your siesta.
 I was going to say you have lived other ways.
 There's two different kinds of life that you love.
 I mean obviously you love to be needed, given yourself to this life of taking care of others, working, and gardening, and so forth. That's been something you love doing. And you also love not being responsible. Those two don't fit together very well. 
 And the Italians seem to be able to do that?
 It's not yours to take care of. 
 Well it's like these are two extremes. Either the responsibility's on or it's off. The first thing you said was I want to stop just to turn all this off and to have a lifestyle now that is completely different free of all this responsibility, or the one that you've got now which is full of responsibilities. Nothing in between.
 It's either on or off. [0:32:06]
 It sure sounds like it. 
 Yeah. It's not a job that goes away. 
 That might be nice to have some of each of the worlds that you love.
 Something you didn't intend.
 With the market you mean?
 You need to? 
 So that's your responsibility?
 Which you don't want.
 You started over. 
 You love that life too. 
 Hmm. 
 I wonder if before we talk the next time you'd be willing to try something. I brought along with me a little set of cards that describes things that tend to be important to people's values that people have. And if you're willing, what I'd like to do is just take half an hour or so and I'll show you how to do it. As you sort those really think about which of these are most important for you now at 84 in your life? That changes over the course of life and what's important in one decade is less important in another decade. Just get a littler clearer on what matters most now. If you'll do that, we could talk about that some more the next time. And I think that might be really helpful in where you seem to be stuck in at the moment. Would that be all right? [0:36:32]
 All right. I'll get those and show you how to do that. It's not hard. It's something you'll understand. And then if you'll bring those back, we can talk about that next time. 
 What I hear so far in delaminate is you're torn between these two lives that seem incompatible. One of them is the life you had in Hawaii, the very laid back and relaxed no responsibilities, nothing I have to take care of, just enjoy the moment, and the life, and the sea and so forth. And this other life that you've been very good at and you also loved you said which is taking care of things, being successful, taking care of your children, giving them things that you would like them to have, caring for your garden, and so forth. And those two visions don't seem to come together so you're drawn between the two of them sort of flopping back and forth. I wish I were just in the other of that. I wish this could just turn off, and I could own my other life again which is a hard place to be. You've been struggling with this quite a while I gather. [0:37:52]
 And really have a sense that it's time to move on.
 That's what I want to talk about what's most important now. With the life that you have left, what is most important to do? So that's what we'll talk about next time. I'll get that for you. Here's what I was talking about. This is a set of cards and I just want you at home to think about them, put them into three piles, those are important to me, those are very important to me, so these are the most important ones, and those that are not particularly important to me, and those end up (inaudible at 0:40:17). If you can, just figure out which of the things are really most important to you now. [0:40:26]
Okay, let's start that whole section again real quick, and Mike if you can stop down for a second. 
MODERATOR: So I'll have a roll of extra footage. 
 Just bring them back. If you can put them in little paperclips or a little rubber band around the piles so when you come back you'll have a pile that says very important to me, and a pile that says important, and a pile that says not important. And just keep the three piles separate with either paperclips, or rubber bands, or something that will do it. And then I think we'll have you take the next step when we talk again the next time. [0:42:11]
 Bring them back please either paper clipped or with a rubber band around them in the three piles that you've chosen. Does that seem clear?
 I'm sure you will. I'll put a rubber band around them now. And just take those along (inaudible at 0:42:39) and I'll see you next time. 
 Yeah. (pause, clears throat)
 Gonna put these down cause otherwise (loud clearing of throat, pause)
 Wow.
 Right.
[1:05]
 Right.
 Right.
 Mm hmm.
 Right.
 Tell me more about the part about being miserable. Is that the first that you felt miserable all week? (pause) Um 'cause you don't see this getting' any better.
 (voices overlap) How little is going on?
 How little you have.
 (voices overlap) Otherwise you'd be gone.
 Just a, your head gets so big, I mean to me it sounds like um you're gonna uh keep both of us focused on like this sort of ticker almost of like, you know (pause). These things you have to do, these thing that aren't working out, the money you're not making, what you should be doing, like there's this sort of sense of almost like you know stock ticker like just kind of running through all this stuff but I have the impression that (pause] on one hand that makes you anxious and the other, it keeps your mind off how totally miserable you are.
[16:07]
 'Cause you feel like you really have nothing. You're not connecting with anybody.
 Cameron I think it's pretty scary for you to be sitting here actually um because (pause) 'cause you're looking at all this stuff.
 OK.
[26:01]
 I see.
 (voices overlap) Maybe you're just more stirred up [than you were] (ph) earlier.
 I take the point though that actually it's more like you look forward to being here 'cause you can actually talk about this stuff rather than just having it run over and over and over and over again in your head.
 Sunflower bar, yeah.
 Yeah.
 I think all the, between the anxiety and the depression and the reality, you're feeling pretty much in a cluster fuck.
 What will have made you more depressed?
 Having?
 Right they're not talking to you in a way that makes you feel much less alone.
 They're actually adding to the sense of burden and responsibility that you feel so overwhelmed by already.
(pause)
 Right.
 Right.
 Yeah.
[39:28]
 Right, kids coming over.
 (voices overlap) Oh I see, yeah.
 How much um, how much do you feel like you're completely walking out on yourself in all of this?
 Um, not having faith in what you are capable of.
 But um (blows nose) you know do you know what it's really like to be so (inaudible) all the fucking time? To be saddled (ph) with so much you really can't handle
 I guess it reminds me of like, E&G; were like, there's less and less of you there, um (pause) yeah I guess I get the sense of you kinda walking out on yourself 'cause like in terms of how hard it is to really, I mean you're telling me everything that's going on. I think it may be hard for you to hear about it, 'cause it is so overwhelming, and it is so awful and you are beyond your wit's end.
 Yeah.
[43:45]
 Yeah. (pause)
[44:44]
 Yeah, um but uh, do you want me to, I guess I'll see you at nine on Tuesday.
 OK. How are you?
 Right.
 The girl who you stayed with in Kansas?
 Did they leave for the airport (inaudible at 0:01:54.6)?
 You just got angry and - 
 Could they have gotten your message, but they still didn't get there and leave on time?
 Um-hmm.
 It wasn't a - 
 One of the biggest traumatic few days you've ever spent.
 It was kind of like following through with the hard times [that have been] (ph) before [in a way] (ph). 0:03:24.5
 Um-hmm.
 Everything worked.
 In a way it was almost kind of like-you felt from your, end like maybe it wasn't that, to you didn't feel that much different coming in after being away from there (inaudible at 0:05:00.4) to-or just coming to school.
 I see. And it really mad you angry. That's what they thought of you. They kind of in a way, or - 
 Would fall apart (inaudible at 0:06:19.9).
 And (inaudible at 0:07:04.6) wanted to listen to him.
 That's what I don't understand, is you feel like you have to keep up your [strongness] (ph) and... because it sounds like it was really loaded and heavy on you.
 Yeah, when [he asked you] (ph) how it was and was willing to (inaudible at 0:09:09.0) but you didn't-you just [balled] (ph) it up and asked him how (inaudible at 0:09:13.4) kind of [went] (ph). You felt like you could've done it then didn't you?
 Well I can you-do you feel like you [can] (ph) cry with Don usually (inaudible at 0:09:30.9)?
 I guess maybe this kind of (inaudible at 0:09:39.3) would be a big (inaudible at 0:09:40.9).
 Yeah. Do you mean like you were (inaudible at 0:12:59.2) down ness and kind of a sadness and welling up inside was kind of you're feeling guilty or a (inaudible at 0:13:08.0) about that (inaudible)?
 Is (inaudible at 0:13:18.8) the abortion more than about getting pregnant?
 Because they are two, you know, really different things (inaudible at 0:13:28.9). I mean they're two moral issues. It could be modeled very each case.
 It's not as simple (inaudible at 0:14:05.3) that kind of thing (inaudible). [Just] (Ph) goes with very, very, you know, either very intense, very prolonged anguish, you know, disruptive period. When it's over there a (inaudible at 0:14:20.2). (Inaudible) doing something very exciting for me. Or towards something that's [over you now] (ph) and can (inaudible at 0:14:28.7) hard things. (Inaudible at 0:14:31.7) an ordeal it's over (inaudible).
 Having, you know what I mean, it's a very human reaction (inaudible at 0:14:42.0) good or bad. (Inaudible).
 Well yeah, I mean you know (inaudible at 0:15:43.8) because it does sound like, you know, you really do have doubts that there really may be some kind of moral [dilemma] (ph) going on inside you.
 To pin it onto anything. It was just a whole big well of depression (inaudible at 0:16:50.8) specified.
 So (inaudible at 0:16:58.9) feeling that, you know, you were feeling (inaudible) like you were feeling anything just that really heavy down, [gray despair] (ph).
 You know when you, you know another thing about that is, you know, you did have a lot of feelings and you know you kind of, your emotions overcame you the first couple days. It was very hard for you to go through those, a week or so, you know until it was all over. But you were keeping up strong ness inside. And you know because you know you wanted to get (inaudible at 0:17:52.9) get it done. It was kind of like (inaudible) catch up to you. Do you see what I mean?
 Kind of like you've been, kind of (inaudible at 0:18:01.4) just kind of haven't been honest or you couldn't be attuned to yourself and your feelings, you know, because it was too much. But it's kind of like it wells up because it's been, you've been some place else, you've been being strong and being determined.
 Um-hmm. You have (inaudible at 0:18:57.5) again, like you came in being strong. You were expected to be weak, but you wouldn't be.
 Yeah. Just needed to be with somebody, have someone close by.
 Yeah. He didn't have to say anything, just [as well as] (ph) just share.
 Yeah. You mean like you don't, it's kind of like you don't quite feel like you have something established where you just feel very emotional, like a framework or a way of relating to each other. Is it something like that? kind of like you know you kind of relate to each other when you see each other and there are fluctuations in mood, but kind of like there's a real upset like in you, kind of like, you know, it's kind of contrasted to when you kind of know how each other acts and reacts. It's kind of like that isn't the, you don't have a framework between you for that. Is it is something (inaudible at 0:21:19.2)?
 Um-hmm. Kind of like crisis kind of relating or relating to someone who's really in despair and [it's something that] (ph) you know you haven't. It's kind of like you couldn't understand why he was bewildered and you were kind of bewildered about his reaction.
 I mean why should you be mad at yourself when all you could feel is despair and sorrow?
 Sobs.
 What I sense here you saying is that, like you had kind of wanted a release from (inaudible at 0:24:11.3), some kind of, at least make sense as far as talking words. But you just couldn't because that's, the only thing that was there was that welling up and kind of like he didn't know how to react to you.
 [Feeling] (ph) kind of disturbed maybe.
 You're kind of are used to relating to him, I mean sobbing and despairing, but that's all you could do (inaudible at 0:24:38.7).
 Right.
 It comes from (inaudible at 0:24:50.9).
 You didn't need him to try to understand. Well maybe you're feeling guilty. You didn't want that all you did is want to be held. Just like all [he] (ph) did was want to sob.
 (Inaudible).
 (Inaudible at 0:26:01.8).
 Yeah. [You're used to] (Ph) (Inaudible at 0:26:13.4) inside you. [Don't feel] (Ph) clear.
 (Inaudible at 0:26:30.6) days or something (inaudible) not really clear (inaudible) to anything that's (inaudible) just very (inaudible) what that (inaudible) is kind of numbing (inaudible).
 You feel really edgy.
 Yeah, because yeah you kind of feel wrong (inaudible at 0:27:18.6), I guess that you feel wrong and guilty like, you know. When you said "I've been being bitchy" kind of sounded like you just kind of [unhappy] (ph).
 [Being] (ph) making (inaudible at 0:27:45.9) in their mind (inaudible).
 You didn't want to be treated as anything other than the way you usually are.
 I kind of sense you can't talk about it to anyone, is it because you don't want them to be kind of thinking something about you (inaudible at 0:28:56.4) sounds like would be something (inaudible) she's (inaudible) to her (inaudible) upset.
 She's not quite the same as she was before all this.
 Because I kind of sense that you want, you don't want kind of a response to this from them.
 You kind of want (inaudible at 0:30:06.8) you want to be away from anything that can trigger it off.
 She was making, it's kind of like (inaudible at 0:30:44.5) [treating you] (ph) like a [little kid] (ph) that doesn't do anything to make them feel good, you know, [when they] (ph) do something you just get praise (inaudible at 0:30:52.1).
 Yeah. Because it's like (inaudible at 0:31:22.3) you just don't like reacting this kind of (inaudible) respect to people.
 (Inaudible at 0:31:38.1).
 Well you see, I think that [was] (ph) part of the problem because you wanted to be treated like you were perfectly fine, getting [annoyed] (ph) when you don't. But you're not. You really don't want to accept that (inaudible at 0:31:56.3). But yeah. [And what you're talking is] (Ph) that you do feel different [you said that] (ph) you know, after the whole thing. And things can't quite be the same way. [They aren't if] (Ph) you get annoyed at yourself because you're not the same way. You're bitchy or you get annoyed at them because they're treating you different. That may not be the reaction you want. Or maybe that you want things to seem like they're just the way they were before. You know you just don't feel quite the same way.
 Yeah. Very, you know, very (inaudible at 0:32:51.4) I mean there is a breaking (inaudible), you know. It's like I'm okay. How are you? That's how you're trying to act.
 But you can't [pull] (ph) it off. You know.
 You did [pull] (ph) it off compared to (inaudible at 0:33:07.2).
 But that's what I'm saying. It's kind of like you do feel like, you know, you just want to act like usual, but there's too much going inside of you. So you get edgy.
 Which you told me that when you told Don you were all right on Saturday.
 That's what you wanted. You wanted to mourn (inaudible at 0:34:07.3).
 Right. And so it's just kind of having been hidden it just rolled right out, [pouring] (ph).
 Yeah. It's kind of like you don't want to-you want people to, you want to present a face to people that's strong and can stand up and go through a whole lot and not get emotional about it (inaudible at 0:36:24.1). It's [unappealing] (ph). I mean it's a hard thing (inaudible at 0:36:33.1) I'm saying. It's kind of like you don't want to say that's not you because it is (crosstalk).
 But it's also you do have those kinds of reactions, too.
 You want to be weak and be held.
 I guess I do understand why do you call getting upset and crying being weak?
 Don't you think it's human, the need to cry?
 (Inaudible at 0:37:46.4). I mean don't you think it would take kind of strength also to cry also? You see what I mean?
 Kind of letting yourself be touched and have your feelings (inaudible at 0:38:07.4).
 Like people can't (inaudible at 0:38:23.1).
 Kind of still [want to] (ph) just, you can't hold them in. They just have to [come out] (ph). You don't wan them to. You'd rather not have them [come out] (ph) sort of (inaudible at 0:39:02.5) too big to hold.
 - see inside yourself.
 It wasn't really what you (inaudible at 0:40:30.1).
 Felt any responsiveness to someone else (inaudible at 0:40:53.7).
 Yeah. But you were (inaudible at 0:41:03.6). I sense you were, like you talk (inaudible at 0:41:09.8) you were going to make a connection to what you told me just [then] (ph), which was kind of lack of your sensitivity and responsiveness to other people. And before that I think we touched on is that what you do with your own emotions in terms of not, you know, thinking it's bad to have them. It's kind of like somehow, like you don't feel that I want to show my emotions, but it kind of also it has an effect (inaudible at 0:41:40.1) to other people, their feelings.
 (Inaudible at 0:42:27.5) feel something very strongly and [might come] (ph) as a very, like the feelings are a very clear resonating thing, you know, and you know. It's like you [don't know that] (ph).
 It's like it kind of makes you feel sad.
 Yeah, I kind of sense that, you know, the kind of feeling that you're feeling now it's kind of like generalized, it's not specific, but it's numbing, it's [down] (ph), and it's absence of other things too. And like you can have this strong emotion that really wells up, like the despair, the sadness, the sorrow, kind of just [generating] (ph) the last couple of days [you're] (ph) feeling like you're empty and down. Is it an empty kind of feeling?
 Can you think of anyway to describe what it-words to put on what it's like? (Inaudible at 0:44:15.7).
 Yeah, that's what I'm wondering, is (inaudible at 0:44:58.7) when you say you're overwhelmed, does it feel overwhelmed or feel like it could eventually be overwhelming? Do you see what I mean, the difference?
 (Inaudible at 0:45:10.7) I'll feel overwhelmed. Like if I let it up like I just sob for hours, I mean is that kind of [what you're feeling] (ph)?
 Yeah. Kind of (inaudible at 0:45:23.1).
 Um-hmm. (Inaudible at 0:45:49.1).
 Kind of like you kind of look at yourself [I still fell] (ph) depressed, I still feel bitchy, what has this done to me? Making it (inaudible at 0:46:10.0).
 Yeah, making it do something.
 (Inaudible at 0:46:15.7) worrying about it, wondering about it that makes it (inaudible).
 It makes it come true like a (inaudible at 0:46:25.7).
 Yeah, there's some, yeah, there's-I really hear you saying there's something about being with people that really kind of brings those feelings up, you know, it makes me feel like I just want to be away, I want to withdraw, pull the covers over my head.
 Okay so you...how did you hear about this clinic?
 Okay. And so at that time did you think, oh, this means something....I want a....?
 Okay. So how long were you in therapy in Boston?
 Okay. And the reason why that therapy stopped in Boston?
 Okay. So do you have....so when you decided to begin keeping track of it again, coming to see us. You mentioned you got a big idea just to keep track of things.....
 Oh....(laughter) 
 Okay, so what makes you pull the brochure out of the folder......(overlapping voices)
 Fluoxetine and Prozac?
 Oh, okay. So you started that last week? And so you decided to come see us....
 Oh, okay. 
 Sure. 
 Sure.
 (inaudible) to take them?
 So tell me a little bit about what it is that you want to work on here. You know, the long term phase, in addition to....
 Medication? (overlapping voices) 0:05:45.2
 Is anything (inaudible) thinking about these fears? Like have you noticed like a common pattern of what's going on...(overlapping voices) 
 Now when did the baby die? I think sometimes, you know, we have anniversary dates and things like that (overlapping voices) 
 The judgmental (overlapping voices) 
 So would you say that they were frequent bad years or bad periods?
 And some of it could be developmental (overlapping voices) 
 Was it the summer going undergrad? 
 Okay. 
 So you say it hasn't been as bad as this last month....can you tell me a little bit about (overlapping voices)? 0:10:01.2
 Now when were finals for you?
 Also this is when your relationship ended. 
 Can you tell me a little bit about how you could tell that this was the worst month for you as far as what was happening?
 Such as?
 Okay. 
 Was that five months that she was away in Thailand...was that difficult? 
 What's the longest relationship (inaudible)?
 And this is Julie that went to Thailand (inaudible)?
 Have you had the same issues with other...like just when you say that, you know, Julie expressed things that she needed and you can't do that.....
 And so what does....how have you seen that your breakup with Julie has affected you...you mentioned that usually you would...whatever's going on, you've been able to still function, still work and all these things....how have you seen it adversely affecting where it causes you concern? 0:15:01.5
 When was the last time (overlapping voices) 
 Okay. Anything from a particular that makes you have...you know, that's caused these bad days to (inaudible) 
 Do you have any other relationships or people who are important to you (overlapping voices) 
 Oh, wow, that's along time. 
 Her name is?
 And are these people here in New York or....?
 Do you have any friends here (overlapping voices) 
 Okay. 
 Okay. Just trying to get an idea what your support network is. 
 What about your parents? 
 Okay. Do you have any contact with them or....?
 Sure. Have you ever....have you guys ever worked on any (inaudible)? 
 About fifteen minutes or so of time. I'm so used to doing hour sessions (overlapping voices) 
 Just some questions I want to ask. 
 You talk about the crying daily and it's good to hear that you've had five good days. And talk about chest pains. 
 tightness? 
 And how often does that happen?
 Are there any other symptoms that concern you?
 Okay. Let me ask you this, Britnay, Have you ever, you know, sometimes especially if, you know, your relationship issues or during the time of stress and anxiety, you know, some people had crossed their mind, hey, I'd rather not be living? 
 Sure. When was the last time you've had that thought?
 You say you don't have any plans to carry it out?
 Okay. 
 Okay. Have you had thoughts of suicide prior to this (overlapping voices)?
 About five years ago? What was going on five years ago?
 Have you ever attempted at any point in your life? 
 Have you ever had a family member....? 
 ...commit suicide or any suicide gesture?
 Okay. What about history of any substance abuse? Or any alcohol?
 Okay. What about for you? 
 I'm just writing this down so I (overlapping voices) 
 (overlapping voices) listen to the whole tape. (laughter) Is there any family history of depression or anything?
 And your sister is still living with your parents?
 Two sisters? Okay. one younger and...?
 Both older? You're the youngest? 
 Okay. Have you ever had any diagnoses at all?
 Have you ever been hospitalized at all?
 Okay. Since...let me see. Do you just want to tell me a little bit about, you know, what is...what do you think is important for me just to know about you. How sad are certain issues? 0:25:17.4
 Sure it is. What does an intimate relationship look like to your ideal if you could (inaudible)? 
 Sure. So it's that...it's like a conflict you want the commitment and (inaud0 you want to be able to, you know, raise children but then there's something there that prevents you from being able to have that and it's the question is what is that?
 Okay. That's something we can definitely explore. And it sounds like you've made some connection that the difficulties that you have to form (ph) intimate (inaudible) has something to do with things that were going on in your childhood; in your family, is that what (overlapping voices)?
 What I hear you saying is that when you find yourself in a relationship, a part of that is finding yourself picking apart or trying to immediately find everything that's wrong with the relationship. 
 That's one (inaudible) that you find yourself...... 0:28:08.5 (tape just ends) 
   You know, even the quality of your voice, ah, sounds like eh, eh, the way I hear it, it's as though you were saying to me, Daddy, please don't send me to camp.  Mommy, please don't send me to camp.  And I think you're reexperiencing this whole conflict of being sent away, feeling rejected, feeling cast out, alone, worthless, a girl.  Because you feel that's what's going on here.  In a way, this is like the church, too.  Where you came to find some belief and magically get what you really wanted.  I, God, would answer your prayers.  But I didn't turn you into a boy.  You still hope it.  Anyway, it's casting you out again, and you're going to have to leave the church.  I think all of these things are again reflecting the way you feel about our stopping and leaving me.
   Well, because you're reliving and remembering all those times when you were sent out unprepared, into a world that you didn't want to go to, that doesn't mean that eh, the reality is now that.  Although it's understandable that all these memories would be revived.
   Were you familiar with some of her other songs?
   Hmm.
   Well, I have the impression that among other things, uh, you were sort of looking for Jesus in me, or God the Father, with the Holy Ghost, all wrapped up in one.
   And I don't recall your ever mentioning how you then left the church, or drifted away, or however it happened.
   Hmm, from what you describe, you're in the process at least.
   Well, our time's up.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 Yeah, you mean it's not even-like in a way it's just flat.
 It's just going along and like, yeah, there isn't anything bad happening but there isn't anything good happening either. There is no kind of breaks or excitement in your life.
 Um Hm.
 You are bothered...
 Like just being very routine in everything.
 Um Hm.
 There's no break from it. 
 And you can't kind of say to yourself "Well, this will be over."
 Just to get really involved in something.
 When you say for a few hours at a time, does that mean... What does it mean? You can't do that at all now or you can't do it for what kind of time?
 It's going to keep on being a struggle.
 But it's the way that you're going to do it once you're into it that's bothering you. 
 And instead what's happening?
 Umm.
 You want to get it done, you say, but you keep on finding excuses not to.
 How's that?
 Um Hm.
 Does that work?
 Um Hm.
 It keeps you from having to go over that thing and keep on making a choice in your mind.
 You keep on telling yourself the same thing.
 ...and close that book.
 You don't feel good, what do you mean?
 Because of what?
 I mean is it uncomfortable? Is it-is it just feeling awkward or preoccupied about other things or what?
 Preoccupied with?
 Mmm.
 What's the point?
 But you don't really want to be here. You don't really want to be talking about anything?
 Or there isn't anything that you do really want to be talking about here today?
 Probably?
 Is that...
 You mean like this is a chore that you don't...
 Um Hm.
 Yeah.
 How come you think that?
 Well, that it might have been developing.
 Oh, it would have been-if you hadn't called-if you'd called more than five minutes in advance or something like that.
 It would have been.
 Well, like I-I mean-of course if you'd called five minutes in advance and you said you didn't want to come I'd say okay. I would mind it more then because it would be more of an inconvenience because I would have been expecting you but to me that seems okay to do that. You-is it that you didn't know that or you don't really want to take advantage of that option? [11:17]
 Real?
 Um Hm.
 It's acceptable to me.
 You have a schedule here and if you break the schedule here then?
 And what is it that that is saying?
 Yeah, I mean what is it the same thing? It's bad? The (inaudible 12:34) situation?
 Um Hm.
 You've got some kind of obligation to the other person, therefore...
 Yeah...
 What doesn't seem proper?
 Um Hm. You mean-
 Those were the only two possibilities it seemed?
 Yeah.
 You mean like when I said that choice that was a choice that might have worked for compressing the amount of time it took even though that's more time for you?
 And if you had not wanted that or if you broke that up at all then it's like what? Going against what you think I wanted? [16:18]
 (chuckles) I don't think so (laughs) sorry.
 If you want to transfer college?
 Ungrateful? [17:53]
 Um Hm.
 So that's how it fits like your view?
 Is that...
 Yeah. [18:31]
 Um Hm.
 Yeah, it's just that in certain ways I see it. I think you bring up a lot of issues. There are some differences, though, like not going to the dentist because it's a nice day. Like-well I'm real surprised to hear you say that it didn't even seem like an option to you to say no, that you didn't want to come Monday. That kind of thinking's very clear to me and that doesn't bother me at all, in fact. But the other thing that is different about therapy, in my point of view, is that it doesn't make sense. Therapy is different from the dentist in that the dentist can do the things to your teeth and things where you want them done or not, unless you're struggling (laughs) physically.
 But it's like-he can do different things-but you know, generally he can do it to you. But therapy isn't a thing like you're lenient to someone in my eyes. And it doesn't make any kind of sense coming in just kind of treading water-I mean if it seems to you like it's just a day when all you're going to be able to do is tread water.
 Now that raises an issue on the other side, of course, like if it's-on the other hand, if someone has to work on getting out and having more (inaudible 20:59) sometimes that's the thing to do. But not always.
 What do you think?
 Yeah?
 Um Hm. Well, do you like that or not?
 That old paneled office view things...
 ...Would you enjoy that?
 The way its supposed to be.
 That's the way it's supposed to be.
 What does that mean to you, that it's familiar?
 So if I tell you that that system that assuming that system, isn't the system that I assume, what does that do? How do you react to that? [22:21]
 You can't just throw it out?
 You can't just stop acting on it.
 Um Hm.
 Well, not being able to it-is that a matter of just feeling like it's not done, it's just not done? Or is it worrying whether I'm-also worrying about whether I'm telling the truth (inaudible 23:27).
 Well, I guess I'm...
 Well, actually what I meant was do you believe me when I say actually, certainly-at least arrangements as kinds of things like that are not a hassle to me.
 Well...
 Maybe it's fairer to say a very slight hassle. I mean, sure, every time you have to change a little thing, in a way it disarrays things. I mean, compared to the other things to sit there and say you're in favor of...
 What I'm saying, it doesn't seem like it counts for much. 
 That hassle is very slight compared to the advantage (inaudible 24:53).
 But you're reluctant about testing that particular norm whether it's really there or not. Like you don't know if you want to strain our relationship in that way. 
 Um Hm.
 You couldn't the person that says "Okay, fine"?
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm
 Um Hm.
 Well there are all these medium levels in-between, too. Like the kind of level I'm talking about where something might be some kind of slight hassle, but there are other things on the other side, so it definitely adds up to, you know, feeling it's okay. But do you see those middle alternatives? Is that any type of anything you'd be willing to risk or is it just that you...?
 Like in a way-like if you can conceive of the person who would say "Okay, fine" and mean it and all they would feel is okay, fine,-with them it wouldn't be a hassle to call them up and say "I don't want to come in." Not only would it not be a hassle, in terms of that, but maybe you wouldn't feel funny about it. I don't know. What about to the-there are a lot of ranges in between saying "No, you can't come into my oak-paneled office again" and saying "It's okay, fine."
 And...see, so in a way, I'm saying can you imagine yourself taking a risk on something like that. Or if you weren't sure that it would be absolutely okay, fine for the person. Can you imagine?
 What about mixtures, like...?
 Whereas that person would come down hard on you. Is that what it would mean? They'd say "No, you can't do that? Or shame you in a way?
 You should be glad he's not coming, then. What do you mean?
 I see. Well, what do you want to say to that person? Or those type people? What's your...?
 If they say that to you? [29:18]
 Um Hm. Yeah. So it's-well like here, I guess you're operating on the notion maybe I'm going to react like that or some like that. Is that person? But there's a chance that I'm not-some type of chance...
 ...that you're out of line to take...
 But you aren't willing to find-to take-
 Well, what would you want-
 And how do you feel about that? That assumed system? Say, back in school?
 Does that seem okay to you? Does it bother you slightly?
 What bothers you about it is what?
 Mmm. Like you're not allowed to say-you start thinking-your mood isn't taken into account. Whether you want to come today isn't taken into account in that. Those things don't matter. There's like-there's a general rule.
 Period. [32:16]
 Meaning a kind of stupid view. Over-simple.
 Well, so how does it seem to you when you think you have enough-a kind of coarse prediction just laid on you. A coarse model or just a general...
 No, well, okay, so there's a thing where you think it's not worth bothering but do you resent it or anything?
 I mean, that crude system that doesn't take you into account?
 Wouldn't try to change anything?
 Now are you talking about the system in general, or like, this therapy?
 Um Hm. Like the social aspect of things. How it's structured socially. 
 Oh, what do you mean?
 Is that...
 Period. Like cancellations aren't allowed.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 And the way it's handled is what? If you did something like try to cancel when-an appointment when there wasn't a dire emergency, what is it-what is the thing that keeps you from doing that? Like how are the consequences that you see? [36:10]
 And therefore?
 Not (inaudible 36:56).
 Falls down on what?
 Well, I was going to say-ask you if that's the kind of thing that you think about specifically in relation to me. This therapy and not wanting to come. But that if you didn't, then I'd refuse you (inaudible 38:04). Not only would I be saddened...
 I guess that isn't just that you don't feel comfortable, but something about how you think you're being viewed.
 Which is...
 Now is that something that you think? Or is that something you think I think?
 You know, you have your doubts about whether you have any kind of right to be here?
 Well...
 Tell what you mean a little more about a right and then (inaudible 40:48) to answer that. 
 Maybe your life is about the best you can expect. Is that what you mean?
 If you really believed that, would it make a difference to how you feel about doing this?
 But would you still feel unhappy and like you were missing something? [41:47]
 Um Hm.
 What does she mean?
 What do you think she means?
 No, no, I really don't know what that means.
 Um Hm.
 How did you feel about that?
 Hmm.[43:51]
 You don't really feel that put together inside?
 See-
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm. A kind of (inaudible 44:40).
 And very rigid.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm.
 You're just sort of what?
 You mean it's a different thing than sitting in the apartment kind of boredom?
 And what is it that you see about wrong with that-see wrong with that motive?
 Yes.
 What kind of level of solution do you see as being a solution for that?
 Um Hm.
 Well, like...
 No. I mean...
 Yeah. You say that it's not a psychological problem. Well, what is it in your mind?
 Um Hm.
 (chuckles) Now I feel like I'm getting lost. Maybe I should try to formulate what I think about this thing. If you think-do you think you kind of have it out-the way it's a concern for you?
 Having that (ph cord 48:08).
 Okay. I've got to try to think because we've got six different things that... And this isn't going to be a super (inaudible .48:44) so you should stop me when you don't understand.
 One thing, anyway, is that-I guess I really don't see it the way you do. Like, it doesn't even-this thing that therapy and rights and deserving, all that-I think how I see it or what I do-what I do is not kind of sort whether there are unhealthy things in a person's head as opposed to healthy ones and see what the ratio is and come out with a decision. (inaudible 49:26) I don't make that kind of assessment. What I do-and in a way, I think that's what you're doing to yourself. You're trying to check-I mean is this reasonable? Are there more reasonable about the way I'm acting that normally (inaudible 49:44). It could add up to a ratio such that I shouldn't be here... 
 ...or not. What I am going from-in a way, that's not exactly a question I ask myself, I guess. I guess I take your definition of yourself that way. I take your saying that it doesn't feel that way to you.
 That is doesn't feel to you like you're all together put together as legitimate, you know?
 And go from there. What I do from there isn't say-is to-okay, no-so that's that. Do you understand that?
 Well...
 Well, it's hard to say why else people come to therapy. I mean, it's hard to say. It's hard to say what else people that come to therapy have in general between all of them. That it even adds up. That's...[51:28]
 What do you mean by psychology?
 See, that I don't-that...
 You mean me or you?
 Science?
 And?
 Like...
 Yeah, well. It's hard for me to talk about that question. Which, I guess, is something like who do I consider is worth having therapy. Are you eligible for therapy? Because I've never done it that way. I've never really operated with that kind of criterion. With a criterion like that, like...
 If you had acted what?
 So that the fact-so you're kind of thinking well the fact that you had to wait for two months or so you had to wait is a judgment that...
 I'll tell you one reason you didn't get assigned to a fifty-year old gray-haired man with a beard is that there isn't one at the Counseling Center (chuckles).
 But what you mean...
 That the Center thought you deserved me? That kind of thing?
 Um Hm. It made you think maybe it was okay for you to be coming to therapy.
 Maybe, well the doubts are in your mind or are the doubts about what you think the Center (inaudible 56:41)?
 I had one more thing I wanted to say. I've got to stop, so we'll have to talk about it again. But the other thing which I lost back on the other thing was you say one of the things that makes you worry about whether you should be here is that it is-it's difficult for you to talk-difficult for you to organize and structure things you say and lots of times you don't know what you want to get hold of a all and you can't-it's difficult sometimes
 That makes me think maybe you shouldn't be here. Is that a fair kind of statement? Like that really surprises me. I mean, from my point of view, it's like if you can do it, that's probably when you don't have much of a problem. Once you can get hold of things and structure them (inaudible 58:00).
 And that one kind of way-one kind of problem that people have, it seems to me-I hate this thing about keeping our thing legitimate problem because it doesn't fit with my viewpoint very much. But it's like, okay one (chuckles) we'll just understand what we mean by that and no implications. It's whatever (inaudible 58:27) the (inaudible 58:28) was. That it's perfectly legitimate for somebody not be able to get hold of things or be able to get into them or be able to find difficulty in getting into their problems. So that's-that doesn't say to me that someone doesn't have problems.
 That says to me the more likely that they have problems and they also have an additional problem of not being able to approach it.
 What do you think of that?
 Does it make a difference?
 Right.
 Um Hm.
 Um Hm. Okay. I'm not sure if I completely said it. I'll have to think about it, too, if you're unsure. 
 Do you think that's just a function of the amount of time and that if we spent fifteen minutes more or allowed an hour and a half instead an hour? Or do you think that it's a function of this whole kind of getting in to something that's more like function of nearness to the end than amount of time spent (chuckles) (inaudible 60:12)?
 Um Hm
 Um Hm. But is there also a kind of sense-I guess the thing about saying now is like a sense of being cut off and maybe that solution that I just threw out now isn't the solution that's viable because it presents another problem for you like that treading-all that time. But there's still that other issue. Like now it's like now we're going to stop and you may lose hold of this place that you've gotten to by the time you come back. [61:15]
 But there's some kind of sense that you lose something in this way that you get cut off. You can't get right back to where you are.
 On what grounds...?
 Well is that the kind of accepting like the kind of accepting the oak-panel situation?
 That makes more sense to you?
 Can you just restate it?
 Um Hm.
 Is that to say that you kept on putting yourself in that position or you let that happen? There are ways in which you didn't use that, just that there were some things that made you a statistic that felt like that that you didn't resent and others that you did.
 What do you think is going-do you have a sense of what's going on?
 Um Hm.
 So, what?
 I'd like to talk about the time things again because there is also some things, like the convenience thing is one thing-but there's other considerations that I have that I (inaudible 65:23). On Monday?
 Okay.
 Well, we can go Monday and you could know by-you could just call in between. Like make an appointment on Monday and if you don't know by Monday, then you just call up on (inaudible 66:18). You can try calling here. I'll give you my number. I'm here a lot, but I forget to turn the phone back on sometimes.
 (inaudible 66:44)
 Oh, you don't (inaudible 67:13), so either way (inaudible 67:21). Bye.
 Do you think you've, eh, you have the feeling that you feel less depressed if you don't say them out loud, you mean?
 Do you feel that that's true here too?
 No.  I mean, I, I, if in some way do you feel you're trying to, well, you put it, better your position with me, you know, whatever it might mean?  I ask because you recall last week one of the things that you were very much aware of was that, eh, when I would say certain things you became very occupied with, what did I mean and what did it imply that I wanted from you.  And so you had to think about it and figure out what I wanted so you could comply.
 I'm sorry.  I, I missed the, what was the issue?
 You mean, until you would see what was offered.
 You know, it occurs to me there's a parallel even, uhm, between this, this way you describe your thinking which you've described in, uhm, in many different occasions, uhm, where you search for all the possible things that you can think about, whatever situation it is.  It strikes me that that's very much like your feeling that you have to sample all possible foods, for example, if you and MSCZ go out to eat or something.  And the way you put it in connection with the food was, you felt you didn't want to miss something because if you don't watch out, you'll lose out, you'll miss something, you'll miss out.  And when you feel compelled, as you just described, to rethink and replay the situation, for example, the phone call with the mother, it has that same quality.
 Ah!  Yeah, that's the mystery.
 Well, our time's up.
 All right, I saw you a month ago, September 19th and at that point your mood was stable and it was good, see I told you.
 You know.
 I know, well listen, it's frustrating but we'll get there.  If your brain can get there for a short time, then all we have to do is get you there for a long time, right.  At least you can get there.  It's much more frustrating to not be able to even achieve any level of remission; at least you can get there.
 You don't stay there, I know.  All right, so you weren't sad, you weren't anxious, you weren't irritable, your heart rate was 100, your appetite was fine, you were not exercising, your sleep was okay, your energy was good, self esteem was okay, you were not suicidal, you were not hopeless or helpless, concentration was good, no manic symptoms at all, we thought that you were doing nicely on your usual cocktail of Lamictal, Wellbutrin, Cymbalta - 
 Not Cymbalta, Provigil, Vivactil, Zyprexa, correct?  All right, so tell me the exact doses you've been taking?
 Two of the 10
 Zyprexa?
 And how about Provigil?
 So what happens?
 Up until Sunday you were okay?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Right.
 Then you got [INAUDIBLE] again.
 So your mood was okay until 2 days ago, 3days ago.
 Okay and what happened?
 All right.
 So you lost your drive - 
 Your motivation.
 Are you anxious?
 What changed, just the days, the shorter days?
 Like what?
 Why, what's going on between you 2?
 And the bleeding issue.
 At least your moods are okay.
 That's right, that's right
 For some reason your brain became more vulnerable.
 Is your appetite very high?
 Are you sleeping?
 Why not, what was keeping you awake?
 That was the last month?
 Might that have been a little mania?
 Were you revved up?
 But then you got to sleep and you slept for how long?
 You were.
 So a decent night's sleep.
 Even though it shifted late.
 Were your thoughts racing?
 Talking too much?
 But you cycled out of it.
 Do you think we're not getting much from the Vivactil anymore?
 We've got to raise all your meds, you know, we've got to get you back.  We can't let this slip away, we really can't.  Any suicidal thinking?
 Do you have any plan to hurt yourself?
 Do you feel hopeless or helpless?
 Are you able to concentrate?
 Spinning your wheels a little bit.
 Now you're slowing down.
 So not enough juice.  
 Self esteem is for crap?
 All right, we need a radical surgery, so here's what we've got to do.  
 Well, do you want a diet pill?
 Yeah and Topamax never helped?
 The main way to get you to lose weight is to get you off the Zyprexa which we can't really do right now.
 Yeah.
 I think we have to do full court press.  Have you ever been on the MAO inhibitor, Selegiline?  Okay, the type of depression you have right now is called atypical depression, right, it's depression that the key feature is this lack of drive, this lack of juice, no energy, dragging, right, and it comes with this tendency to oversleep, overeat, have very low energy, and be very sensitive to rejection, right, that whole group of symptoms is the atypical symptom.  We suspect that syndrome involves a dysregulation in dopamine and it often is set off by the shorter days, by the way, but it's a dopamine problem.  Most of our drugs are pretty weak with dopamine, however, Wellbutrin has got some dopamine stimulation and so I want to increase that to 450 and one other thing we use sometimes is a stimulant like speed but with your heart rate so fast, we can't really do that, so the other thing that is dopaminergic is the MAO inhibitors.  Now the reason why we don't generally use MAO inhibitors is because of the dietary restrictions and the potentially life threatening interactions, right, and you've been nervous about that in the past.
 And so normally with you, we tiptoe, you know, tiptoe into that neighborhood.  The newer MAO inhibitor called Selegiline comes as a patch in which you don't have to worry about the dietary restrictions at the low dose, so I think kind of round one, the easy thing to do is start this without the dietary problems.  It's kind of the safe MAO inhibitor.  Now if we have to increase the dose, then we'd have to worry about the diet and then we'd have to have a longer conversation.  For now, for round 1, just slap the patch on, okay.
 Read the whole insert; you can learn about it, totally safe, no dietary restrictions, okay, at the low dose, at this dose.  If we have to increase it, you'd have to worry about the diet, at this dose you do not.  The reason why it's worth trying is what if it's the home run medicine, then it's worth being on the diet, you know, and we'll kind of know if it's good for you on this round, okay.  
 We're going to do that too.  We're going to do everything.  Remember, you were just well for a while which for you is so dramatic, so dramatic that you finally got well, that the fact that you were only a few days depressed gives us an opportunity to rush in fast before you get very depressed the way we know you normally would, right, it's early now, we can jump on this fast, so even though normally we don't like to do multiple things at once, in this case, I think we should throw everything at your brain to get you out of this state, do you agree?
 Okay, it's your depression.  I mean you could stagger it.  You could first do, you know what, we stopped the Depakote last time, right.
 Do you think we lost anything off the Depakote?
 Okay and you're on 1mg now of the Xanax?
 I'd like you to increase the Lamictal also.  Lamictal to 150 for 1 week, then 200, to Wellbutrin 450, Vivactil, now remember you had trouble tolerating Vivactil, if you can tolerate it, I would go to 25, to 30 - 
 You can't break the, they come in 5's also.  All right, let's just go with 20 to 30 to +/- 40, okay, if you can tolerate it, work your way to 40.
 As long as it takes, you know, it could be a week, it could be a day.  You figure it out, you kind of know.  Go up on the dose, see if you tolerate it, if you are, keep pushing it.
 The Provigil we're going to maintain 200 and Zyprexa, you know, eventually I'd like to trade Zyprexa for something else that doesn't make you gain weight.  Right now we don't have that luxury.
 The time to make big change is when you feel better, not when you're this depressed.
 Okay, so Zyprexa you're stuck with and then after you do all that and you still think you need to push, [INAUDIBLE] 6mg per 24 hour patch, okay, learn a little bit about it.  Should I even write the prescription?
 Yeah or do you think you might not do it?
 All right, if you need it, I'll write it here and you'll, you'll decide and then we'll go to 200 on the Lamictal, 450 on Wellbutrin, 200 Provigil, maybe to 40 on the Vivactil, and 5 on the Zyprexa.  Do you need prescriptions?
 Lamictal, do you want a 200 Lamictal or do you have enough?
 I'll give you the 25's.  So let me write for the 200's, okay, Lamictal 200 and I'll write for Wellbutrin, 3 of the 150's?
 Provigil you need?
 Vivactil you need at the - 
 Okay.
 And the [INAUDIBLE] I won't write.  Do you need Xanax?
 Does it help you?
 I'll write that you take 5 a day, okay, just so you get a lot of them.
 Phentermine.
 I spoke with [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], right; did he put you on the beta blocker?
 It is high.
 Yeah.  I mean you're not getting symptoms of it but heart rate being high is an objective fact.  Your heart rate runs at about 100, you don't have symptoms of it, which is very good.  If you were getting short of breath or faint then we'd, then we'd worry more.  You just don't, you know, the normal is 72 plus or minus 20, so normal runs between 50 and 90.  You're just a little above the high end of normal.  It's not dangerous.  We just don't like seeing it that high.  
 It might but let's hope for the best.  Don't, don't give me trouble, okay.
 Just like your daughter, you know, the medical stuff had to interact with, you know
 Well but the key maneuver in getting you to lose weight would be getting you off the Zyprexa.  It will melt away, I promise, it will melt away.  I promise, it always does.  I do this all the time.  People gain a ton on Zyprexa and then they lose it as soon as we take them off but you have to meet me half way, you have to get better.  You get better, it's the first thing I'll do.  I mean I might not take it away right away but we'll try to switch it for something else similar.
 Geodon.
 No, not Geodon, I mean something in that class.  [INAUDIBLE]
 What's your age?
 You had memory problems, even at the low dose, even at the tiny dose.  I know it's frustrating to have gained all this weight.  I have to, we have to have priorities though and I mean 3 or 4 days, why did you have to crash, you know.  If you would have come in here last week, we would have done everything you're saying, we would have started bringing you off the Zyprexa and, you know, started moving, but now you crashed and now all bets are off, we have to get your brain back. 
 And it's not even bipolar, I mean you weren't manic - 
 You were normal
 It's like migraines or seizures, it's what we call paroxysmal neurologic events, it just boom, like a seizure, it's like saying why does a seizure happen and why does a migraine happen.  Migraines happen, there may be stimuli, blah, blah, blah, but we don't really know, we just know that they happen, right, people just get into those states.  Your husband just came.  I hope he's not expecting us to, [INAUDIBLE] or not?
 We missed you, we just finished.
CG: All right.  
 Right, so she may not, but if it's looking like that's not working, I would go to this MAO inhibitor patch.
 No, but try to avoid over the counter drugs anyway and when it says on the label do not take this if you're taking MAO inhibitor, try to avoid it or call me.
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 You know, just don't take it.
 The problem would be if this starts working but no well enough, the higher doses of this require the diet but let's, let's do first things first, start with this dose and see how you do.   The reason we're pushing this and the higher dose of Wellbutrin is because the nature of the depression has very atypical features, the overeating, oversleeping, low energy, very dragging, unmotivated depression.
CG: Is the weather change a factor in this too?
 Have you been using it?  Use it now, 30 minutes a day, it has to be morning, it can't be after 9 a.m., okay, and it's been studied, it has to be morning light.
 Um, and that should, you know, you have bad luck if that doesn't work because often if you're seasonal, the light box will help quite dramatically.  
CG: She's afraid also that it would make her manic but you don't think that's - 
 Right.
 It used to rev you up?
 It means your brain responds to light, that's great, that's good news.
 How long did you use it?
 A half an hour, well, start out with 15 minutes and then work your way up to a half an hour, okay.  It's another drug, consider it another drug.
 I mean and it could be these last few days, it could be the shorter days, you know, and this is when it happens.
 This is when it happens.
 No, you won't.  People usually plateau, they put on what they're going to put on and then they just plateau.  Hopefully, this is the Zyprexa weight and you're finished.  It's very frustrating but let's not forget, you had a good run, you had a good couple months.
 Yeah.
 This is how it goes, this is par for the course.  We'll get you out of this.  I've seen people far sicker than you get better, okay, you'll get better.  All right, let me see you again, let me hear from you regularly, like once a week.  Just give me a message on the message, how you're doing.
 And let me see you again in 2 months.
 For a month?
CG: Yeah.
 You know, I'm not a big fan of changes, I'm not a big fan of on the phone saying increase that, increase that -  
 This is the plan, we've got to put your head down and just do it - 
 And deal with it and then we'll work our way from there.
 You could, you could, I mean decide yourself.  If it's if it's something you think you can get through with the Xanax, because last time we did it, you managed it and it really worked eventually.
 When you barreled through the anxiety.
 So you may have to do that too, just play with the options till you get it right, okay.  I'll see you in either 1 month or 2.
 I don't know.
CG: You don't [INAUDIBLE]
 The only [INAUDIBLE]
CG: Okay.
 Bye bye.
 Okay.
 Right.
 So where are you tonight?
 As I remember I didn't use the word guilt. You were the one that was using the word guilt right. And I agree with you that people in order to change have to be dissatisfied with what you got; unhappy with that. That's the first essence of moving. But beyond that I think it's unhealthy to get hung up in a thing of I'm no good, I'm rotten, obsessing about that. And it makes it very difficult to work with you if you're that unaccepting and the uncomfortable. Just like marriage would be very hard to work on if you can't (inaudible at 0:02:38.8). And that's kind of the same thing I'm saying. If you're that upset with yourself, it's really hard to work on changing it if you can't have some basic degree of liking yourself. [0:02:53.6]
 And that kind of jars against you?
 It would confuse as to what the value good and what to value bad.
 And that counteracts her. [0:06:41.5]
 What is the crux in this?
 Sure sounds like it would.
 And so you felt badly afterwards?
 How is that the same?
 Could you tell me right now how this is important to you?
 I think you are too.
 No it makes sense to me in terms of what I know about you already. [0:22:02.5]
 No you didn't have to tell me any of that.
 Yeah, that's what I figured is why you were telling it to me. In fact I almost said when you started off I'd let you tell it on one condition and that is that it was not told as a story but material to work on and that I could break in at any time.
 Well I let it happen now. It's pretty much over with.
 Yes I know but I don't...
 You said almost absolutely nothing about yourself in that whole thing.
 Okay.
 I learned about you about how you talk about other people and in terms of them, and they, and you, and all people, and not in terms of... [0:23:14.1]
 Sisters.
 Yeah, well I believe...
 I believe that you did it with your sister, but I'd rather try something different with your sister thing. Are you willing to work on it?
 Okay. I'm your sister and I just got through telling you that story and saying what should I do. Let's say this is a total new chance. You've had one go at this already last week. You've already had that question. We'll just say that that was just a rehearsal and wipe that out. We'll say you dreamt that or something and it's happening right now. What should I do? [0:24:10.8]
 No, I want you to respond. I want you to...
 From what you learned and what you felt about... Okay, now is a new space and time and having seen her reaction, and you told me that you were uncomfortable with it, and that was the way that you put her down, I'd like to see what you do the way you feel about that whole situation right now. So talk to me as being your sister. What should I do?
 You can't even say that. That's ourish. [0:25:06.7]
 Okay. What do you feel about that?
 And you're telling her what she should do?
 Okay. How about if you try again and say some of those things to her? [0:27:07.8]
 Some of the best things that you're saying about your sister are the things that you're saying to me as therapist and not the ones that you're saying to your sister either last week or me role playing your sister right now.
 By the ridiculous put down.
 He does what?
 You weren't relating well to her in that instance.
 Let's say you had a chance to... Your sister came down tonight, would you want to unsay any of the things you said last week? What would you want to do over?
 What she should do.
 Which is a toned down version of the same thing right?
 Which is a toned down version of the same message. The other is weighing very heavily all the judgment and you deserve to be shot in such a thing and this one is do what you should do. I mean they're the same message only this one isn't bong quit as loud or gross but it's the same message. [0:31:30.5]
 How is that irresponsible?
 I miss the classic part of it or that fails to...
 Well I don't think in classical terms and it sounds like a classical example of a very individual specific case with very individual people.
 Yeah, it doesn't enlighten me or I don't think you about that situation.
 As a personal thing.
 And for you I think that's unfortunate because what I think you need to do is to see things in a more personal light including yourself. [0:33:24.1]
 Yeah it does. And it sounds like a way for you to keep from understanding the feelings for her.
 I noticed that even when you were role playing tonight and talking to me that you hadn't looked at me at all. That you looked at the ceiling and played with the Venetian blind, and I really had the feeling that it was very difficult for you to confront her; that you'd really rather not. [0:35:01.1]
 Can you think back to one minute ago what you were feeling right there? Your voice started to get a little shaky. Do you remember what was going on?
 And yet one of your goals is to have an intimate...
 Okay. I feel closer to you right now in this last little interchange than at any time during the hour so far and it's like you're talking about where you are right now. And it's really a way for me to know you much, much better and be able to help you much more than when you're talking about your sister etcetera. And I really find that very likable.
 Well what do you feel about it right now?
 You couldn't expose them for very long.
 Yeah. What do you mean by precious? You don't want to...
 But you're appearing more that way by your present behavior than you would because I realize that you're protecting yourself a great deal. [0:38:09.2]
 Yeah. Well I mean I get a feeling of you protecting yourself a great deal in here.
 And what you're saying about what you do in the rest of your life too.
 What are you saying?
 I'm going to have to work to get it right? [0:39:13.7]
 Well I like where we are right now, but I sense that you're very uncomfortable and want to get back to some subject matter right? [0:40:21.3]
 Okay. But I don't like you telling stories. I find it very unhelpful. And if you want to tell me about incidents that were important, or painful, or happy, or whatever, that's fine if we work on how they affect you, or how you see them, or how it's important to you but not as a finished short story. Is that okay with you? [0:41:31.4]
 No, I'm not sure either, but I've probably got more practice at that than you do so that'll be my end of the bargain.
 How are you feeling about yourself right now?
 Although you seem like...
 And you have to proceed at what level is comfortable for you to work.
 Do you feel that way right now?
 Well okay.
 Okay. Since it's something you think about a great deal in the sense that this was obviously a very important one to you what if we spend the next few minutes thinking about other possibilities that you would've been comfortable with saying to your sister or that you feel comfortable saying to your sister right now. And I have one that just came to mind. Would you be willing to do this for a few minutes? [0:45:24.1]
 Okay. I had one that just came to mind and that is just the essence of what you just said to me. Okay, I'm going to pretend that I'm you talking to her. What's the name?
 Okay. Shelley I feel uncomfortable your coming to be and in some sense casting responsibility on me to decide. That weighs on me heavily. I just feel uncomfortable. It's hard for me to know what to say. I don't want to be cast with that burden. [0:46:10.6]
 Yeah, respond.
 No. Is that something that you would say?
 Okay. What kind of an inadequate response would you want?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Some of the repulsion, the negative.
 Okay. Would you be comfortable saying that to her? That your heart goes out to her. I really feel bad.
 And can you tell me why?
 It seems like you were almost close to tears now in thinking about that. Is that true?
 No.
 Okay.
 It isn't?
 Well I can guess that one of the reasons that you're having gross and unsatisfactory relationships with people is that you're afraid to let your eyes burn and feel those tears with somebody just the way you just said about your sister.
 And cry about it?
 I started to laugh at that because I'm not sure what ordinary people would do but I was thinking that extraordinary people would be willing to do that. It just brought back an incident to me of a film that my whole extended family saw one time and it was over and they turned on the lights and I saw all of my uncles with tears in their eyes. I was really struck by what kind sensitive men my father and his brothers were that they weren't afraid to have those tears. That just came back to me like present time when we started talking about that. I don't know. If I were your sister, I would really feel very gifted by that interaction if I had been her, and you had said that, and shown tears about it. [0:52:57.7]
 It's not satisfactory for you?
 They don't show tears?
 Pardon?
 And I hear real fear in that not only in your family but in you.
 The funny thing is what?
 Yeah, I agree. I agree.
 I agree that that may be the problem.
 What would happen if you did? What's your fear of what would happen?
 And that's the extent?
 Have a certain what?
 The same way you would.
 Is enormously depressing.
 Do you have any ideas why?
 Could you tell me?
 Can you say I have to find the right stance to do it from?
 Will you try out something again right now what you would find to be a response to Shelley given the fact of last week for example? [0:59:32.6]
 How are you today?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. 
 What weekends would be the easiest because that's when, um, you have lot of time with your family.
 And why should you have, yknow, you should be busy on those days.
 Um-hum.
 So for your bipolar we are using Lexapro 20 in the morning, Lamictal 200 twice a day.
 And Seroquel 300 mg at bedtime.
 Given the past history of benzodiazepam dependence we are still struggling with that.
 Am I correct?
 Tell me what's been happening with your life?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Why, uh-huh.
 He does not want to be the centurion?
 Um-hum.
 Did you finally drive or did you take another?
 Hum. 
 Suffocating.  
 Yeah. 
 So was your husband around?
 So after how long is being that you were out by yourself?
 Why?
 Again? What did you overdo?
 Now in the past I don't have in the record, but in the past is it true that you have taken over, gone to [DEIDENTIFIED] or to some other states to meet other people?
 For sexual purposes?
 Did that happen one time only?
 Mania.
 So he's giving them out?
 Even not your Lexapro, Lamictal or Seroquel?
 That's disastrous.
 Did you cut your wrist?
 When was that?
 How come I didn't get called?
 You were home.
 So how come you didn't call?
 There's no such thing as an addicting personality in the book.
 In the book, some books say and our bible in psychiatry is DSM4TR there's nothing called addictive personality disorder so do not take the shield behind it. There's no such thing. When you are at the peak of mania then you do some choices, decisions, uh, that might be irrational and because that's just a part of the disease, but if you are mad at your husband or if you're mad at your kids and try and do great even with them by doing something that you agree as a family that you would not do, who are you hurting?
 No, you are not, you are hurting you.
 All their choices will be the least point of their threshold.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 That's right, because they care for you.
 So much ahead of their agenda, you're skipping number 7 and going to number 32.  How could you go to 32 if you haven't gotten to 9 or 10.
 Well, I'm your doctor and I'm trying to keep in train. Are you back to work?
 So now six months ago that was not in the horizon.  You did not believe that you would be able to go back to work. You are all set to go for disability, but you have been able to overcome that.
 It took time. I agree similarly some of the situations you can do that can be easily done. It's okay. But there are other situations it takes long hard work. Imagine this scenario, either when you are significantly manic or you are significantly depressed and you did something like you say are stupid, that you are kicked out of the house or you are kicked out of the job. Now tell me in this hypothetical situation what will be your resources?
 Now you are not in the middle of crisis, ma'am. We have gone through crisis for the last six months.  I've pulled my hair off of my head and you can see 50% of them are gone. Not all for you, but part of it is for you. I have several others for which I have to pull hair. But the thing is, is that we did it, but how you deal with your family members I really cannot get involved in that.  Ask yourself which one would be more important, going out and partying with your kids, having good sex somewhere in [DEIDENTIFIED] or [DEIDENTIFIED] or [DEIDENTIFIED] or staying at home with your husband. Which one is important? I cannot make that decision. That's your call. Now that because you are in between the crisis not overly depressed on one hand and not overly depressed on the mania. Taking your total medication, not much side effects, going back to full time work, that means you are in between two crisis. When we are in between two crisis that is the repair time. When we are in the middle of the crisis as we had six months ago there was no time to repair. That was time to survive. How can I prevent from going to the hospital. We just gave [INAUDIBLE]. 
 [INAUDIBLE], few days ago. 
 Yeah, that's how we came to decisions. 
 It's almost six months now.
 That I have been able to keep you out of the hospital.
 But, ma'am, if you cannot start with us, if you were [AGE] or [AGE] who does things before they think and gets into trouble. You are well ahead in the game. You need to think okay I want to buy that Porsche, the red and gold, what's the return for that? And in this particular case your husband and family is involved, ma'am. Not only yourself. 
 There ain't any magic pill.
 I'm telling you up front. There ain't any magic pill that will fix you. This is one of the best forms that I have seen. You can build up on top of that or that is that you can do it, maybe slow, but can do it.
 I'm still proud of you.
 Okay, next target will be 1 mg a day.
 All right?
 Okay at present you are taking Lexapro 20 mg in the morning.
 Lexapro.
 And then Lamictal 100 mg twice a day.
 Then the third one is Seroquel 300 at bedtime.
 And the other one is Xanax XR
 2 mg if needed basis, right?
 So you don't need any prescriptions today do you?
 You have to fax it, I can write it for you.
 Right, because we are having lot of problems.
 Lexapro 20 mg one in the morning, [INAUDIBLE], no refills. Then Lamictal 100 mg.  I'll, yeah, taking twice a day right?
 60 none, 180 none.
 Um-hum. And then Seroquel you're taking 300 mg at bedtime right?
 And the Xanax I'm going to give you a very small amount 1 mg.
 25 mg twice a day 30 of those.
 That's fine, I gave you a little extra.
 Huh?
 2 mg of what?
 No, no, no, no, no. I'm going to get you off of the Xanax. You have used it for long time. You have a choice between Xanax or me. Pick your choice.
 Keep it in your mind, keep the determination it will work, it does.
 Okay, here is your four prescriptions and I will see you back in about, this visit was three months right?
 Three months. Any questions for me, ma'am?
 Okay.
 11-29. Marta Quinn. Therapist Betty Johnson.
 Good. So what about you and your ex-boyfriend?
 Good.
 So you were assertive with him. Let him know, "This is what I needed." [0:01:15.5]
 Who was this now? This is your mom? [0:02:32.0]
 Oh, okay.
 What would give him that impression that you were depressed-
(crosstalk)
 And you don't-
 Do you think any other things that are going on in your personal life affect your job performance? Or affects the way you work?
 What kind of emotions do you typically display in a lab?
 And did he?
 did he start yelling?
 So it seems like his expectations are unreasonable or... 
 Let me ask you this, Marta. When did you find out about your aunt, and then your mother?
 Okay, so this was before you found out. Okay. Okay.
 What does it feel like, being... [0:08:48.5]
 (inaudible at 0:08:50.7)
 So kind of like walking-have you heard the term 'walking on egg shells', around here? 
 Okay.
 What is it in Spanish? For... how do you say it in Spanish?
 Okay. And it's like you don't know what his mood is going to be next time around?
 What kinds of things do you say to yourself?
 I was asking, what kinds to you end up saying to yourself as you're listening to these things you're - . (inaudible at 0:09:53.8)
(crosstalk)
 (inaudible at 0:10:46.4)
 Sounds like-is he driving you crazy or making you crazy?
 Okay. So let me ask you this, Marta. If you didn't work for this gentleman, what are your options?
 Right. So it sounds like if you don't continue to work with him, you go back to Portugal. [0:12:10.1]
 (inaudible at 0:12:12.5) go to grad school?
 Yeah, there's a lot of other stresses that just come along with being in the program and being - [that's enough] (ph) to have. 
 Okay. Well there's an option, right? [0:13:08.9]
 (inaudible)
 But if you went to work with someone else, would that be your issue what he's saying in his (inaudible at 0:13:46.7)? 
 Would you trust the rest of the folks who are in the seminar or who have to do the-to be an advisor (ph), for the defense and those things. Do you trust them enough that they wouldn't allow him to...
 Have you talked to any of the other students to get a read on the people that (inaudible at 0:14:39.4).
(crosstalk)
 That you should work with this guy that you're working with now? And what is her rationale behind saying that, for example? 
 [I think] (ph) that's a lot to think about, a lot to weigh.
 Rather than tell him that you really don't enjoy working with him.
 Let me ask you this, Marta. How were you able to tell your boyfriend, I mean your ex-boyfriend, "This is...I don't want this. I didn't like this. This is what I needed to do for myself." How were able to tell him that in such a matter-of-fact and confident way. 
 Well just like you -
 Yeah.
 I guess I'm wondering what is different about-what's been-
 How have you been able to share your feelings and your thoughts. And certainly with your ex-boyfriend, to really communicate your needs and what you didn't like and what you needed for yourself. How were you able to do that?
 And not with your boss. Yeah. 
 So what would be the worst things that can happen if you were to communicate to him what you need in him? What you wanted things like? [0:17:48.0]
 Have you imagined it at all?
 Have you imagined what that would look like?
 A normal person would act like what.
 So how do you take care of yourself? 
 I guess I'm wondering, how do you take care of yourself. Because I see how you've - in a couple instances, you've shared with me how you've talked to your mom and told her that you can't be her Kleenex. That was an example of you taking care of yourself. You're communicating assertively what your needs were to take care of yourself. This ex-boyfriend wants to get back with you and you're like, "No, I need that space. It's not where I want." You're taking care of yourself.
 Yeah. How do you  - - how do you-how does that affect, you think. If you're not taking care of yourself and you're putting up with a lot of the badgering or the things that are making, you said, inadequate and second guessing your abilities. You have to walk on these eggshells, and to be heard. [But the way,] (ph) when are going to take care of yourself. [0:19:27.5]
 Let's just pretend for a moment. Let's pretend that I'm your boss. 
 What's his name? Just his first name?
 Okay. Oh I remember you telling me. 
 Yeah, let's pretend like I'm him. What if you could say...
 Anything about losing your job, or about him making it tough for you when you - these sorts of things. What would you tell him?
 Well think...think about ....
 Talk to me. I'm Steve.
 What does Steve do. I'm not...
 Marta, come into my office. I've got something to talk to you about.
 Do you sound that way?
 Are you going to start out that way?
 Why don't you come into my office and we'll talk. Like you had something you wanted to say to me or share with me. I didn't like the way you did that one program. You know, you should be able to do this. Why can't you do this? I'm going to give somebody else if you can't do the work the way you're supposed to.
 This is my time. I can't do your work for you. I got my own stuff to do. 
 Imagine your boyfriend's face on his face. Not even - 
 Well right now you're taking care of yourself. And he can't do anything to you. He can't fire you. He can't do anything. So even if it comes out, don't worry about grammar. Don't worry about the right words. Don't worry about his feelings at this point. I just want you to just dump that. And maybe not to me-we've got a bumpy chair you can pretend like he is sitting over there. Whatever works for you. Just if you have to speak it in Spanish, do that. Whatever. What would it sound like. What would it look like.
 What's coming up for you? What's going on? Why are you crying?
 Sure [that's hard] (ph), Marta. What is that like? It sounds like you love what you do.
 Better to back to Portugal?
 You know..
 Well let's try and brainstorm a way possibly that you..
 Okay maybe we can brainstorm ways of how to talk with Steve. In a way where you're not hurting his feelings. Where you're not causing him to want to fire you or send you back. And there's - there are ways to communicate your needs and your feelings. And your opinions and your experiences without pushing people away. Or without making them dislike you or without disrupting things. Because the reality is, you do need his recommendation letter, right? [0:28:00.1]
 Okay.
 He can resend it or take it back-
(crosstalk)
 When is the Michigan deadline for it.
 February 1st, okay. So this guy has gotten you so worked up that you don't what to go to Michigan now?
 Okay. 
 Right because of the small department. [0:28:56.0]
 Because it's obvious, Marta, that you love what you do. You don't want to-you would like to go back to Portugal to be with your family. That's not-
(crosstalk)
 Right.
 You can help others in a way. (ph) Sure. That's a big responsibility. So it sounds like there's pressure from different- [0:29:55.2]
 Right. But to go back and bring your knowledge and your wisdom that you obtained.
 But at least you have that avenue of training.
(crosstalk)
 Okay, so you don't want to do those things? If you had your sights set on doing grad school here, there is nothing that should be able to stop you from doing that. Right? And sometimes, Marta, when we have a goal or something in front of us and that we want really bad, sometimes obstacles and things present themselves. Have you ever seen hurdles before? Like track races? And they have around the track, they are runners and they jump over these things. 
 You know, that's kind of like what life's course is like. We have this track that we have to run around. But sometimes there are hurdles that we have to jump over in order to get to the finish line. And where we're trying. You know, and so you have this goal to-
(audio gap)
 You know so there are ways to communicate even the worst things to people without putting it in a way that they'll be put off by it. And that's a part of-when you start doing your dissertation, Marta, you're going to have to do a lot of negotiating with the chief research and whoever that you're working with. And so, to be able to do that and deal with that conflict, that's a part of the graduate study experience. And it's easier said than done. Right? I can say all these things, but to actually go through and do it, it's still challenging. Because you don't know how that person is going to respond. 
You're still thinking about your job, still thinking about how it may backfire or whatever the case-this person is really scary to talk to. And that's why it would be nice if we could do some role playing. You know what I'm saying? You know, that's like I was trying to do here. But give it some thought. If you could say anything to him, what would you say. Maybe like you said how sometimes you have all this stuff build up, you just want to spat it out? Spat it out in here. Get all that, the nasty stuff you want to say, just get it out in here. Right? 
And then we can practice on how to actually communicate all these things without all the nasty things. So you don't (laughs) lose your job and your opportunity. You know what I'm saying? Because sometimes you do need to get that off your chest. You need to call him a couple of bad words, or whatever-it's okay. Do that. Because this is a safe space to do that. But then we can practice on how do you-okay. 
Communicate these same feelings and thoughts in a way that would be beneficial for you. And him. Because this is your life's' dream. It is worth it. You asked the question, "Is going through all this worth it?" Sure, it's worth it! And you think you would really be over here in the US now, if it wasn't something that was meant for you to do and accomplish? No. So don't get discouraged, okay? It's worth it. [0:37:27.2] 
And you're going to come-you know how, like diamonds? They have to-coal has to go through the fire, that pressure. You know, has to form and shape the things. You know? That's what this is happening-that's what this is about, right here. You know you're that gold forming to that diamond, so you're going to have to go through the pressure. But when it's all said and done, and you get that degree that you wanted. It - you are going to look back and like, "Pshew, it was worth it." 
And it's only going to make you a stronger -  it's only going to make you a better advisor to other students. Right? It depends on what perspective you take on this. Look at this, okay. "Now I know how I need to be when I'm supervising students." [0:38:16.0]
 You know. So it just depends on what perspective. I know I talked a whole lot. So I apologize for that. What are you thinking? 
 You can even say, "I feel if-I feel that if you were nicer to people, you'll have a lot more people who will want to work with you." 
 You know, instead of-
 When it's making you misera-you don't have this. And you know what? It's not worth fighting with him and getting into a row. It's not. 
 Right. And so now you can even begin with saying. You know, or in some way, begin by saying, "You know when we had that conversation about how we thought you should be nicer to first year students. We've been talking and kind of thinking about it. Thinking that maybe it would be nice if you were nicer to us as well. To all students." [0:40:46.6]
 Anyone that you can be accountable, that he can be accountable to. That you can, you know, there's no one looking over his shoulder who (inaudible at 0:41:02.00.)
(crosstalk)
 Right. Sure.
 Let me ask you this, Marta. Do you think-if it is scary to talk to him face to face about these issues. Have you ever considered writing a letter?
 At least you had an apology, huh.
 yeah.
 Yeah and then maybe collect all your e-mails you have to send and put them all on his desk at one time. "You see all these things? This day, this day." You know, something to bring into his reality just how much he does that affects you. And you want to be able to work in an environment where you're appreciated, where you're valued. And if that people that you have working for you. 
If the people that you have working for you, their morale is low, their job performance suffers as well. And so if he wants people to work more and do a good job, it's important for him to understand he has to create the environment where he's encouraging, uplifting, and motivating and respectful and, you know, all these things. The best way to-it's not the best practice if you want productivity from people to beat them down. [0:43:17.9]
 And that's the way you take care of yourself. To be assertive and you know. And now you're trying to take control over your environment, instead of letting it dictate how you're going to feel and what you're going to do.
 So every time you start feeling the pressure and start thinking, "Is this worth it? What do I do, I don't have options." I want you to first think to yourself the reason why you're in this. Because sometimes we lost sight of why we're doing something? Sometimes when we bring it back to ourselves, it's like, okay. That's enough to kind of, sustain us through that time here. You know? If you-do you make collages at all? Have you ever done that before? Where you go through magazines and...
 And you cut things out. Because sometimes what people do, they get like a poster board and something-a picture frame, piece of paper, whatever. And they cut out words and pictures. And images that remind them of their roles. Or what it is they're working on. Or what they want to accomplish. And those sorts of things. They glue it together and put it somewhere where they'll see it everything day. 
 Even at your work station. There at work. Hang something up in your space or something or... you know. And just focus. So every time he [comes into the lab] (ph) you just turn around and look at that and say, "Okay. This is why I may be going through this. Because I'm trying to get to that." And it helps keep you focused on what's important. So you don't lose sight of it. And allow emotions and things distract you and deter you from that. Because that can be really easy. 
You're tearing up again. Why? What's going on? [0:45:33.5]
 I would be interested in seeing it. If you bring it in, if you decide to do one. I'd be interested to see it. 
 It's framing your future with pictures and words. Somehow they say, what you see in front of you on a daily basis is sometimes what you're drawn, or what's drawn to you or you're drawn to it. So you have your goals and things in front of you on a daily basis and somehow, someway you are drawn to those things. Just by challenging obstacles and things that come up. So it can be really powerful, Marta. Okay.
 And kind of make up your mind, what do you want your work day. Before you even walk into that place with him. How do you want that day to look like. What do you want your interactions to look like. "This is going to be a good day. Stephan is going to be a wonderful boss today. He's going to treat me with respect." Just build yourself up and say those types of things before you even get in there. And you'll be surprised by how much of that actually happens throughout the day.
 All righty?
 Is it time for us to-yeah, yeah. So.
 Okay.
 Okay. 
 Yeah. Let's do that. Next week is the seventh? Does that work out for you?
 Yeah, one o'clock.
 Okay. 
 You really want him to still be in but you can't get him to see that?
 Is it like you were hoping that therapy would help him see some of the things that you are trying to make him see? And that now you are just with (inaudible 3:16) it is not working?
 From the beginning of your marriage?
 It sounds like things just aren't working - period? (5.49)
 First you were saying you were torn. On the one hand you think you should never even deal with it all but on the other hand you get to feeling guilty and you want to get it started again. But you can't make it go anywhere. You are just stuck?
 With him?
 And maybe you have changed a little bit but there is still, like, a stone wall with him? (8:20)
 It sounds like you are just battering it to find out what he feels. You can't get through that and you don't feel like he is really understanding you either - inside your head, what's going on? 
 Was there a reason that you didn't have sex much with each other, you mean?
 (Inaudible 13:06) You just couldn't understand?
 But you just don't know what to do, right? He won't go to therapy. He won't talk to you, so, what is it?
 And it all started when you weren't responding well enough to him? 
 And also you never really had a chance to talk it out with each other, really. You are both sort of staying in your own corners or something? (17:04)
 From the beginning, it was really not very good and neither one of you was enjoying it much and you never got that together?
 Speak more about that. Where you in that? Was it like you didn't want him or was it you got turned off by him not wanting you? What happened?
 So some time back when you just felt you really didn't want that? 
 Go along like what?
 So when it stopped you were just disgusted by it. You were attracted to him but you didn't want to make love to him. And then you got used to it?
 Just thinking you might explode any second?
 How do you feel about making love right now? How does it feel to you?
 You sort of wanted to make love and then...?
 Say that again. You think it is admirable now?
 That would make it right again. That would make it normal. And you are afraid that is why you are doing it?
 Besides that, have you tried asking him? Do you like making love? And wondering how he would respond?
 So why talk to him at all?
 And then the whole thing will end? (29:09)
 It was important to you. You wanted him to listen and he wanted to watch TV.
 And where does that leave you? (32:06)
 You just wanted to get it out.
 You keep saying that. It keeps coming up over and over again that you can't get to him. You don't know what's going on in him and he doesn't understand you either...like that?
 For him?
 That's really infuriating to you. That's like telling you that you can't do anything for him.
 But you can't just solve your own problems?
 He was shutting you out again?
 It sounds like you are beginning to give up. Nothing has worked - why try anymore? (41:04)
 You were thinking: "Well, this is what I have to do? (chuckles)
 All that time you tried to get him to do something and then it takes that to get him to do something.
 It wasn't a caring thing?
 Still not caring about you. He is not concerned about good a husband he is...(inaudible 50:08)
 That's what he usually throws up to you? He'll get it right from now.
 And then you came along and you're the one that's crazy!
 For him to tell you it is your family hang-up; it throws it off of where you really feel it is at.
 And now here it is.
 More like they stuck it out.
 But now it's not there at all?
 Well, it is time to stop. Were you partly asking me in that or was it for you, how you feel? 
 Because I don't know what we can do except give you names of referral places. My own opinion is that it is awfully hard to work out this individually. It is valuable also but it is awfully hard to do it when the two of you aren't in the same room.
 We are closing in the summer. Some people will do couples here but you are still stuck with...that doesn't change the fact that he doesn't want to come. For you all I can say that somebody might be able to take that and there are other places we can give you names of.
 Is that dated?
 Ah, 10.15 to 11.15 or 11.30 to 12.30?
 It doesn't really make much difference. I'll be here from early morning.
 No it will be different because you are on a research program. I don't know. It would be limited because we are closing in the summer.
 Permanent.
 It will be limited for that reason and I don't know what else the people will do after then. Maybe they will run a (inaudible 62:19).
 Okay.
 Okay. (62:42)
 So, let's see, let's not worry — well, let me think, there's two questions, I guess. One will they take claims going back to the beginning of the year. Some places will only do like three months back.
 Oh, okay, great.
 Oh, you told me that. I'm sorry, I forgot.
 Going over information I try not to forget insurance information (overlapping voices at 00:55.01) All right, so we're good there. Yeah, maybe it would make sense, if you don't mind, giving them a buzz to find out about the co-pay.
 I guess there's two other questions. One is the co-pay, and the other is the reimbursement rate. Because some insurance companies, they may say well, we think psychotherapy should cost 110 bucks, and then you have a $25 co-pay, so we're sending your therapist a check for 85 bucks.
 In which case your co-pay — you have to make up the difference, but with the recording I don't think will be too bad. It would be like, I guess, 15 bucks.
 Or they might say well, you know, whatever, we pay 80 percent of the, you know, what I bill which is, I bill them 150, I billed them 150. So, you know, in that case, you'd be all set as far as the co-pay. I'm trying to think. You could pay, although it wouldn't Jeffer, because you're like ahead anyway, because you paid me already for the year. So I guess it's, I mean, for like a few months so far. I forget exactly what you've given me, I have it obviously, but you've hit the deductible already.
[02:32.5]
 So I guess, worrying through all of this, like - my guess is we're probably not that far off even. I mean, you know, I may owe you money, right, because from what you paid me already this year.
 Exactly.
 Right. It's possible, yeah, I would owe you like a little money there, or you would owe me a little money if their reimbursement rate was low.
 And so that, plus what you've paid me already, didn't add up to all the sessions so far. But actually, thinking about it, it's probably going be pretty - my guess is it won't be that far off either way. So if you want to call, we can figure that out in advance, that's fine. Otherwise, I can just wait to hear back from them and they'll indicate when I'll get the check and I'll see how much it's for. That will clear things up. So, either way, I'll probably know from them within, you know, it might be two, three, four weeks, something like that.
 Just ask them like, "what's your reimbursement rate and I want to know more about my co-pays from the (inaudible at 04:17.4)."
 And the reimbursement rate would be like for a psychologist for psychotherapy, like a 45-minute psychotherapy visit.
 Okay. Yeah, that sort of thing that's, from my guess, it's like I said that we're probably going to be not too far off of even, one way or another.
 April.
 No, let's wait and see, again, don't do anything. Let's wait and see what happens.
 I think it's as likely as anything else that you're ahead.
 Yeah, don't worry about it.
 Oh good. And she will probably want to talk to me at some point. I mean, I haven't talked to her beyond the like initial clinical information I gave to her, which I sort of need to give in order for somebody to make a decision whether you're appropriate for the practice. But I haven't talked to her. She may want to talk to me after talking with you. Do you want me to do that? Do you want to wait until you and I meet again after you've seen her?
 She'll probably want to talk to me at some point. I think I remember with your other prescriber, you didn't particularly want me to talk to her, that's why I'm like -
[06:30.9]
 Okay. Yeah, like I said, I've heard really great things about her.
 Good, good. Well I guess that's all (inaudible at 06:56.0).
 Good.
 Oh, that's great.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Good.
 Oh wow.
 I see.
 Right. Which one was that? I've heard of a few of these, but not many.
 Gotcha.
[08:31.1]
 The job won't continue?
 Yep.
 How bad has that been? I mean, how much has that affected your productivity with the writing?
 Have you been feeling suicidal much lately? I mean, that's something you usually talk about.
 You don't talk about it for reasons of lameness?
 Who knows where it would lead. I mean, there might be things to be learned from that.
 I'm not saying you have to talk about it or that you ought to talk about it. But I guess - (pause). I mean, it sounds like (inaudible at 13:58.2) about your feeling and, I don't know, but is that all for different reasons? I mean, I don't know if it's you're feeling frustrated with yourself or despairing about your life or, you know what I mean? Like - (pause). Is it something I imagine to be a symptom like other symptoms, you know?
[14:26.7]
 Can you be more specific? Like I'm trying to make sense of what you mean.
 Do you have a sense what it is about being disconnected?
 Is it (inaudible at 20:18.4) you exist?
 This is a kind of thing on a map someplace, a pin on a map someplace?
 Yep.
 (Laughter) No.
 I see. Happy and something you might expect to be really looking forward to and excited about.
 Well, what happened when you got upset? Like what were you thinking, how did it feel, what was it like?
 Yes (laughter) (inaudible at 24:10.3).
 Right, so like, when you got whacked out and then got upset and felt like you had overreacted, I mean, what was going on? I mean, what were you thinking that you were really upset, what kind of "really upset" are you referring to?
 I see.
 (Laughter) Yeah, "I've been worried", yeah.
 Right, yeah, I get it. Like, the last place that is supposed to make you feel left out.
[26:14.6]
 Like, did this in effect mess things up for you?
 Right.
 I would not have thought, I mean, it's actually in a way, you and I have talked a fair amount about it, like how controlled you are in your communication, I think.
 And how often I think you, even without realizing it, you kind of pull back from things like specifics or (inaudible at 26:36.1) information or details. Not always, certainly, but sometimes.
 So that is, I think I have some sense of why that would have surprised you.
 Well, and it sure isn't fair -
 - for you to still be as upset as I guess you were, and for him to have fucked things up for you again.
[31:14.2]
 You sound frustrated with him.
[32:04.5]
 What thoughts do you have? What do you think?
 So he's sort of like messing with your mind in all these various ways?
 So then, like in addition to the pain from those events that gets sort of displaced into what happened with him, you have like a sense of unfairness and feel kind of messed up for your mind having done that, and being upset about things with him to the extent it feels like you really shouldn't be?
 Do you have a way of understanding it?
 What do you continue to feel about him?
 That somehow you really couldn't look out for yourself that way?
 I see. More distant.
[44:23.4]
 We'll stop for now. We'll talk more next week.
 Mm.
 Doesn't sound good.
 Sure.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 I see.
(00:01:23)
 So let me try to get this story straight. You had some tightening in your chest it first started ...
 You're like "Oh shit. I'm having a panic attack. And I'm really resenting the fact that I don't even know what the hell I'm afraid of and it's all in my head."
 And then it became clear in some fashion that it's with asthma.
 Which (pause) obviously you could have dealt with earlier had you ...
 There was a possibility this wasn't in your head.
 And was a panic attack.
 Right.
 Mm.
(00:02:02)
 I see.
 I see.
 Right.
 Yup.
 Right.
 Right. I guess you were pretty quick to decide.
 It has not escaped you?
 (cross talk) (inaudible_00:04:39).
 Oh, okay.
 Much of this just starts with you just being pissed off something else was fucking wrong.
 And (pause) like not wanting to deal with your PCP about it because that was going to piss you off even more. And taking some of the anger out on yourself by (pause) I think diagnosing in a way that made you feel worse about yourself.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
(00:05:50)
 Yeah, yeah.
 Have a splinter taken out.
 Mm-hm.
 I guess so.
 (laugh)
 (laugh)
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Right.
 For like it's bad enough to have a pain that you're used too, I mean awful. But at least you kind of ...
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 How could you not be very cranky over this? I mean both ... just cranky because like hurting and hurting in new ways and hurting badly makes a person cranky.
 I'm cranky because like (pause) "Now this is happening?"
 I'm sure you would.
 Mm-hm.
(00:09:33)
 Mm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 I follow.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 I see.
 Like a bit out of spite?
 Yeah.
 Like what's going to be involved in this?
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 I'm sure.
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 That would make your fuse shorter on anything.
 I know you don't like that. I mean you hate being like that.
 Yeah.
(pause)
 Yeah.
 Okay. For Thursday?
 Okay. (pause) Okay so still on for Tuesday as usually but that Thursday?
 Okay.
(00:14:44)
(pause)
 Yeah.
(pause)
 Yes.
 Right.
 Oh. There was something he had fallen down.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 I guess so.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. There's a lot you can't know and like you can't be in control of.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 You mean they would help him come up with ideas for doing research or try to do something else?
 (inaudible_00:18:22).
 Mm.
 Is he a good teacher?
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Like in a double sided experiment?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 I see.
(00:19:44)
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Yup.
 No. Actually I imagine it was kind of a pleasure to have one that was.
 Yeah.
 To take you car.
 I see.
 (laugh)
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm.
 Mm-hm.
(00:21:59)
(pause)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I guess there's something about (pause) wanting problems that you can like apply your mind too or ... I mean because a lot of these ... you're certainly not in control of, you know gas mileage and gas cost and types of gas and all that. But ...
 Yeah. (pause) Yeah it's like a (pause) just the sort of thing you tackle. (pause) And clearly it's the problems that it can't that are (pause) so difficult.
 Yeah and (pause) your mind is mostly useless when it comes to things like not becoming cranking when you're in pain.
 Or beyond a certain point being able to manage how much pain you're in. Not that you're doing everything you can but after that.
 There's only so much that you can do.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah. How it completely sucks either way.
 Yeah.
 Sure. No absolutely.
 And I guess maybe that helps a little bit but (pause) either way there's a lot that isn't (pause) susceptible to being figured out.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
(00:26:24)
 Mm-hm.
 How much do you throw up when you're (inaudible_00:26:37)?
 Mm-hm.
 Right. Is it worth trading that out for the arthritic pain or not?
 Right.
 Getting pneumonia?
 Oh.
 Mm-hm.
(00:28:12)
 I see.
 It can kill you now.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Or feel like your old self.
 Who is like the kind of person you want to be and feel comfortable being.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
(pause)
 Yeah. I expect that (pause) right there's some (inaudible_00:32:07) happens and I think I've seen some of this already with you. I think you're more patient with yourself on your reactions. Like you're less self-critical and a little more comfortable with being cranking, pissed off, down, negative, out of control, unable to think your way through things (pause) than you were.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You don't feel like you get anywhere.
 Sure.
 Sure.
 Are you suggesting that when you're feeling really down, angry, and upset you might not be entirely clear sighted ...
 Balance in your view?
 That sounds plausible to me.
 Well some things will and some things won't I guess.
 I mean ...
 Sure.
 Mm-hm.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 Yup. (pause) What have you been thinking about that?
 (inaudible_00:35:45)?
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
(00:36:52)
 Yeah.
 Well and this is also very constraining to you in that you're thinking about something, you know that's really upsetting and bleak.
 Yeah. You can't talk about it because it becomes ... right.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Sure.
 Well (pause) yeah in general (pause) you know certainly like the worst somebody's had or they've been affected by things they grew up with and sort of the way you're talking about (pause) the (pause) more difficult it becomes the more he's going to take it out without kind of thinking you need too. Or a way that would because he wants too on the people that they're closest with.
 And I'm under the impression that there aren't that many they he's close (inaudible_00:40:12).
 His friends. It's really (cross talk)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah. When was that?
 Yeah that's horrible and crazy.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hm.
 Yup.
 Mm-hm.
 Mm-hm.
 Yeah.
 I see.
 It's easier for him to see how horrible it is when done to his grandfather see how it's more perfected on him.
 Yeah. We're going to stop for now.
 On Tuesday but not Thursday.
 Are you feeling that?
 Ok, so you're just sort of like remembering? 
 What do you think?
 If you trusted yourself, what would you say? 
 (inaudible at 0:01:29.4)
 It's a game? 
 Like looking at how you feel from a big distance. 
 [What can you do about it?] (ph)
 I'm curious what you mean when you say nothing got resolved. 
 Keeping busy.
 Are you uncomfortable now? 
 I guess I get lost when you say weird. I don't know what you mean by that. 
 Yeah?
 Ok. 
 (inaudible at 0:05:46.7)
 Hmm?
 Boy, those are awful. You really ought to worry about them. (inaudible at 0:06:05.0)
 Just talking without it getting so upsetting or feeling something. 
 Something (works) {ph}
 Is that what you think? 
 You're smiling. You want me to smile? 
 It felt like it. 
 Shhh. Impish or something like that? 
 Impish? 
 It seems a little play, you seemed a little playful or mischievous. 
 Because you were fuming and fretting?
 Trying to get away from those feelings somehow? Is that what you're saying? 
 You were saying you were feeling like fuming and fretting and jumping in a lake. And I don't know if you mean. 0:08:07.6
 No one loves you, no one cares? Caring and feeling awful, and I don't feel much.
 I see. 
 It's too late now. 
 Yeah but how do you sound?
 It doesn't feel funny. [That's why I always laugh too.] I guess. Because if I felt that way. Not want anybody to laugh. I just think I ...
 I know. But I'm, ok. 
 What?
 What's the eyebrow signal?
 Hmm.
 Hmm. 
 [Rather than feeling you.] ph 
 Ho, ho, ho, this, is one hell of a story kind of thing? 
 Instead of "Oh my God."
 I don't like me. Nobody else does either. What in the hell can I do about it? 
 Um hmm. 
 Think your feeling like that's a hell of a position to be in. To be fuming at anybody and really mad no matter what they do. Like by the time it gets that desperate for you, you're so angry at people not noticing that you're very upset and desperate. And also...
 Shallow, noticing in a shallow way that there's something wrong? 0:12:07.3
 And also hoping they won't see.
 Somehow not solving it or something? 
 Mmm, boy. I bet you really would be if you feel like boy, I can feel that desperate and then shift it some. 
 But it has a very distant wistful thing. 
 Yeah. I don't care. I'm not hurting. Or it doesn't make any difference to me or anybody else. It's time for us to stop. Two o'clock. 0:14:12.7
 Um hmm. Oh I forgot to put Monday down. Let's see. 
 Could be. 
 That's why what? 
 I'll see you.
 Again, no one knows who you are, who I am, just, you know, they.  All right, I saw you, uh, [DATE], so it's been three months?
 Um, you had the extensive neuro psych testing, now doing remediation, your moods you say are weird, not especially sad, but low motivation, fitful sleep, overeating, gaining weight, very low energy, um, no suicidal thinking, not helpless or hopeless, no manic symptoms, no OCD symptoms. Um, so we thought that your mood disorder was in partial remission. Your obsessive compulsive was partial remission and your sleep was disregulated and we tried a whole host of sleeping meds including Trazodone, Restoril, Seroquel, Gabitril all trying to, you know, let you figure out what might get you to sleep and we added that to your Luvox 150 and your Imprimine 10, correct? All right, did anything help you sleep?
 Was it the Trazodone?
 So it worked in the beginning then it stopped working?
 Well, that's the Trazodone.
 That's the Trazodone.
 Well, but, that's good.
 That doesn't make sense.
 Try to describe it for me.
 What did it do to your discomfort?
 Okay so you stopped that. What else did you try?
 Seroquel? Gabitril?
 Okay.
 Well, how much sleep do you get?
 You over sleep? When I saw you last you couldn't sleep.
 What's your energy level like?
 You're dragging all the time.
 What's your mood like?
 Why didn't you come in sooner?
 When I don't see you I just assume that you're doing okay, but you could have called.
 When you crash like that, you gotta call.  Um, all right, so stay in a little bit every day?
 You irritable?
 You're flat?
 You get pleasure from anything?
 No motivation?
 Feel suicidal?
 Any plans to hurt yourself?
 But you feel hopeless?
 Helpless and overwhelmed?
 Able to concentrate?
 Spin your wheels, can't get anything done?
 Getting dressed and showered every day?
 So what do you do most days?
 You going to [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 What does he say?
 Are you overeating?
 You're not eating.
 What's your self-esteem like?  
 Since I've seen you, have you been revved up in anyway whatsoever even a day of fire energy, racing thoughts, talking too much?
 There's been nothing manic whatsoever? Gambling, spending, indiscretion?
 But no impulsivity, nothing manic, only depression? You haven't been revved up for a long time.
 This is a very long cycle, which is bad for you, because then you get stuck in a depression for a long time.
 Um, we're clearly under treating your mood disorder.
 But I think you won't let me be more aggressive. Yknow, you've had, I mean in retrospect, you had a really good run on the Lamictal and Wellbutrin.
 Well, maybe it was the Lamictal, but you did well for years.
 Well, for you compared to this. Compared to last year. I mean really seriously.
 Well, you're saying that, but you didn't get these kinds of depression from it. You got mild depression.
 Like what?
 Right. Well, we need something so to just get our target sense, we need to lift your moods, we need to lift your motivation, we need to lift your energy, we need to reduce your sleepiness, sleepiness.
 Yknow, get you more charged up and we have to go after the cognitive side of depression the helpless, hopeless, worthless, poor concentration. So we've got the whole spectrum of depression to fill in. 
 Yeah, but yknow, when you have to be thinking of this like asthma, yknow this is a chronic condition.
 Sometimes you're doing better and sometimes you're doing -
 It's easy to be demoralized and it's easy to throw your hands up and say, yknow, that's the whole thing, but you know since I've treated you since [DATE], you know that even within the topics of your mood disorder you can do really well.
 We've seen you for long periods of time doing great. I mean, yknow, we can qualify that. You haven't moved forward socially as well as we hoped. Career-wise you haven't had to push because you know you've found this nuce for yourself where whatever, you don't need to.
 Right, but you do work. If I thought you had enough money not to work I would have said it that way. I didn't. 
 You're really, yknow, you're very creative in what you do.
 You couldn't go and I'd be working on disability papers if you needed the money, but having said that you really functioned very nicely in whatever world you've created for yourself business-wise.
 And, uh, yknow, I'm impressed, um, with what you've accomplished here. Any new, yknow, you stay depressed when there's no fuel on the front burner.
 It looks like it's gonna happen.
 You close on the deal before building or you have to build it out and do everything?
 Sign a lease before you build it?
 They don't give you anything down?
 So it's all out of pocket?
 You'll need a loan, short term loan?
 Then you get a big chunk of money once you hand over the keys or just a monthly lease?
 So
 Right. And so how long will it take on that lease money to pay off the two million dollar loan?
 Right and then at the point it will be great.
 Borrow again, right, once it's signed.
 Okay fine.
 You have a good bank, you have a bank that knows you?
 So that's gonna require some managing, so now what, how much time do you spend on this? Very little time?
 So things will get active again soon?
 And you will have the where with all to do it or?
 Is OCD under any control?
 Yeah. I think you have a-
 That's good actually, right? That's very good. That's good. You could have blown the deal on your manic.
 So something gives you distance from that. Yknow, I don't think it's OCD, whatever we're calling OCD is just [INAUDIBLE] to your mood disorder which is, we call it a cycling disorder of bipolar, but at this point it's called depression and depression at some points comes with lots of juice that feels like OCD and at other points like now comes with no juice, not, the neurotransmission dials to your memory. All right, we need, uh, see usually I use Wellbutrin for this kind of depression, the depression that comes with the very low energy and over sleeping, but in your case we're not crazy about Wellbutrin right?
 Still taking Wellbutrin, I know, although you were doing better than you're doing now.  
 But that doesn't mean Wellbutrin stopped it.
 But you were doing better. Um, the Abilify you thought was too agitating right?
 And the, uh, you really, yknow, I mean we're using the Imipramine [INAUDIBLE] for pain at 30. 
 Right.  See that dose is nothing for depression, it's a pain dose, it's not a
 Cymbalta makes you sick?
 And Nortriptyline, I had you on, I was trying to get you to 75, had you at 25 and we stopped all your meds around then.
 You didn't like [INAUDIBLE]? Do remember was there a reason? 
 Now you're on the Luvox under-dosed.  Have we ever had you above that dose?
 The 150?  Is there a reason?  Did you not want to take more?
 Well, a more normal dose of Luvox would be double that. Um, you found Lexapro didn't help, right?
 Yeah, we tried it once in [DATE] and, uh, Cymbalta we tried twice, didn't help. Seroquel was too sedating, Effexor right at the beginning, made you I think manic.
 Which, uh, the problem is we don't have you on a mood stabilizer right now so if we point too hard, we could over shoot, you know that, still we gotta crank pretty hard now so I would suggest we do a, uh, you're not gonna take the MAO, which is really what your brain should see, at this point, having failed so many trials, I think we should do a one, two punch on the increasing the Luvox, you can wait a little bit see if we get traction there, but I don't think we'll get enough and so at the same time let me add a tricyclic called Vivactil.  Tricyclics are good antidepressants, they're good stuff, not quite as much as MAO's but getting there. Like the toxin, like the Imipramine you were on, but a good dose, but the nice thing about Vivactil is it's energizing, gives you juice and in your case that's what you need. Virtually no side effects, I mean many side effects you would know from the Tofranil, yknow, tricyclics in general can give you orthostatic hypotension, so if you stand up fast you can get dizzy, you get some dry mouth and constipation and sedation, not with Vivactil, but in general, so all these are tolerable and we will go up slowly and if you get any of them we'll just reduce the dose.
 Yeah, that would cover us on serotonin and norepinephrine.  I mean the third, if we'd be making a poor man's MAO, yknow, and we, adding Wellbutrin to that would kind of cover all three bases. The three bases are serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine 
 And all of our meds kind of tweak here and there, but those three are transmitters and the MAOs globally increase all three so it would be kind of, if we were to eventually add the Wellbutrin it would be a poor man's MAO inhibitor.
 Without the dietary restrictions, obviously. We only need the dietary with MAO. Now the other thought, although we can't do it cause you're on Luvox, but, uh, we used this Emsam, have you heard of Emsam.  It's newish, it's not so new anymore, it's an MAO inhibitor patch. We slap it on.
 Oh, yeah?  Slap it on and at the lowest dose you don't need to follow the dietary restrictions.
 And even at the higher doses, officially you're supposed to follow the diet, but when you look at the numbers, it's extremely rare to get into trouble with the diet. The problem is it's not that good, yknow, it's probably equivalent to other regular antidepressants. It doesn't have the panoche of you know the MAO. It doesn't have the juice that Parnate or Nardil or real MAOs have so in your case it's not worth it and we never used it along with an SSRI like Luvox. I would use it with Vivactil, but not with Luvox because, uh, potential interaction so it doesn't give us much.  I understand your concerns about the diet.
 But, you have -
 No it isn't. Let me give you the newer one.
 You play around online a lot with this stuff?
 It's more expensive.
 Take this home, at least think about it.
 Do you think the Luvox is helping?
 All right rather than increase the Luvox yet, I want to do one thing at a time. Let's augment first with Vivactil, um, and the Luvox will interact with the Vivactil also a little to raise the dose. So we're gonna start slowly at a low dose and then inch our way up. Don't do things without talking to me.
 Okay, you want to stop, you want to move whatever, give me a call I will get right back to you.
 In fact, I want to hear from you regularly, like at least once a week.
 Yknow, not that I have to call you back, but just leave me a voicemail. You know my number right?
 Leave me a voicemail let me know how you're doing at least once a week.
 And if you're really not much better, I want to see you in a month. Which around here is very sacred, yknow, most people I don't see for you know three, four months. You I really want to see. Can I talk to [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] about you?  
 Well.
 Well, as you know, he's the best psychologist out there, bar none, he really is the best. I deal with so many of them I just, yknow.
 All right, let me, uh, the Vivactil, I know you're gonna look it up and find a reason to struggle with it, but try not to, try to check that impulse.
 I want people to know rather than not know, but I don't want you to look for rare side effects and then use that as a reason not to take.
 All right so, um, Vivactil -
 10 mg take one every morning times one week. If you're okay, then two every morning and then stay on the two and then I'll put plus/minus three every morning.  Okay, you can go up or not go up to the three, but first make it the one or two, okay?
 And here's the voicemail every, why don't we make it every Monday. Okay? 
 Yeah, Luvox at 150, but on the phone I might tell you to double, but not yet.
 On the prescription, I'm writing that you take three a day of the Vivactil.  Do you need any other prescriptions?
 Do you get the three month supply or do you just bring it into the pharmacy?
 A lot of people mail them away these days.
 Right now do you take one of the 150's or two of the 75's?
 So you take one and a half of the 100?
 All right, if I increase it, I'll increase it by 50. I could give you 50's so you increase by smaller increments, okay. Let's, I'll write take two a day of the 100's just so you'll have enough in case we increase. Your anxiety level is okay?
 I thought you had no juice?
 Well, what do you think that's about?  Do you think that might be some paranoia?
 I don't know.  By the way you might not need the Imipramine once you're on the Vivactil.  
 Oh, you stopped that?
 How was the pain, did it affect your pain to stop it?
 Yeah, but you're sitting around watching TV.
 Everyone's covered, yeah.
 Still talk to your mom a lot?
 She worried about you?
 Do you want her to come in here one time?
 Do you want her to go to [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] with you?
 You don't want her that involved?
 She knew the um -
 Bet I could use her to get you going on an MAO inhibitor.
 No? 
 But there is the antidote.
 Okay.
 I agree, but you're so miserable.
 I just wonder if we're missing the bipolar side of it, yknow, most people.
 Yeah, in fact I gave you that last time. That was one of you're the sleep meds.  
 Bipolar depression they're pushing for now, it's an, it started out as an antipsychotic and then it became clear that it works as a mood stabilizer and then it looks like it works a bit as an antidepressant, but more as a mood stabilizer. But most of us who do this a lot, you know the kind of high end drug guys, whether or not you're bipolar we usually put refractory, your medication resistant depressives on a mood stabilizer in addition to antidepressant. We don't know why.  I mean, why is because we started doing it for people who were a little bipolar and then it became clear that most people with medication refractory depression have some element of cycling to their moods so I just wonder if that's the piece we're missing even on the depression side.
 You're not. I'm not giving you one. Right now we're just throwing antidepressants at you to try and juice up your brain, but I can't forget that you did pretty well on Lamictal for a long time.
 It's a mood stabilizer, but not like Lamictal. Lamictal is an anticonvulsant, Seroquel is an antipsychotic. The things that you've been on more like the Seroquel are the Abilify and I never had you on Risperdal.
 Well, it's an antipsychotic, I mean that's the new rage is using antipsychotics for mood disorders. I had you Seroquel in [DATE], so you're ahead of the cutting edge.  
 Uh, we tried it for sleep.  All right, maybe not Lamictal again cause you don't like the side effects but at some point we may want to go the mood stabilizing route again.
 Right, you want to do it now? I think you're too depressed right now for that to matter to us much. It matters more when you come out of the depression and it's a way to prevent a relapse of the next depression.
 That's more relevant.
 Right now we just gotta throw rocket fuel into your system.
 That's right and if that starts happening, if you start flipping in any way whatsoever, you gotta call me.
 And in fact it's the tricyclics that have the most potential to push you, but that's what we're looking for right? We want to get you out of this.
 No.
 Right.
 I'm thinking a mood stabilizer will be part of that.  Let me give you just in case you do rev a little bit and I want you to take something fast, like boom, boom, so we'll give you some Zyprexa not to stay on, but just to use in case you call me on the phone saying I started revving up, I haven't slept for a day or two, just take that, put it in the medicine cabinet, don't use it, but just remind me if it comes to that.
 No.
 It's a pretty famous drug, but it'll rope you in if we need to quickly. There's only a few there, I'm not writing a prescription, okay?
 Let me hear from you in a week and let me, um, see you in a month. Okay?
 All right.
 Did you walk over?
 So now we just do our, you know, usual kind of thing.
 Yeah, I think so.  I think so.
 So what's [INAUDIBLE] with it?
 Uh—huh.
 Okay.
 Really gone?
 Where, where would they go?
 Wow, that's horrible.
 Um.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 That's a bummer.
 Yeah, um—hum.
 Uh—huh.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Wow, how come so early?
 Hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 So, so you're really getting along better —
 That's good.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 There was a concern about him spending too much?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum, um—hum.
 What, what's, uh, going on right now?
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right, you go, last you said you go down to like 2 mg —
 Per week.
 Hum.
 You're getting down pretty low.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Right, right.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 Right.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Sounds good.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Right.
 That's true.
 No, I do remember that —
 When you were going [INAUDIBLE].
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Um—hum.
 Well, I appreciate it.
 I think that you're due for meds, uh, prescriptions, right?
 Now, are you doing the three month, through the mail.
 Ambien.
 But do you, do you get, uh, but you get three months at a time on the other 1s?
 You, you, you, do it through the mail or you do it locally.
 But they won't do three months on the Ambien or that Alprazolam.
 So those we do locally.
 Well what we —
 Well, we could do it, we could to those two locally, and we could do the others, the other ones through the mail.  You want to do it that way?
 Um—hum.
 Those 2.
 All right, so let me, let me do that.  All right, I'm just writing scripts on the sheet, so.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician—Patient Interactions
 In other words like find a new time...
 ...Tuesday? Okay.
 Got you.
 Even I had heard.
 Okay. I think Tuesday is not good, so let's see.
 Sure.
 Okay, I have some time on Monday.
 Sure, no problem.
 Oh, okay.
 Yeah.
 Oh, really?
 Got it.
 Right.
 Got you. Any news about the job?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yes.
 Right.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm.
 A real conversation starter.
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 Like when you are on break they can just go hang out and do this?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Break space?
 I see. Yeah, like if it was right next door.
 Yep.
 Right.
 It's (inaudible at 00:11:36) she just complains about it?
 Yes.
 Right.
 No.
 You have enough impossible things in your life to deal with.
 I know.
 I know.
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yep.
 Yeah.
 Well why wouldn't it become a waste of time and energy, and talent at some point, you know.
 Mm-hmm.
 I know what you said so far is that....
 What you've told me is that you already feel like things have reached a pitch between you and...
 ...she and that it's unworkable.
 For now it's just you don't - can't see like A, (inaudible at 00:16:25) a look at yourself and B, can't see her dealing well with anybody else.
 Do you think you could possibly be wrong about this?
 I would imagine anybody you would talk to about it would know that about you.
 Well I imagine as much as you know (inaudible at 00:19:33), that you feel kind of at fault or kind of responsible for giving up on her.
 (inaudible at 00:20:33) also very effective.
 I mean, you know.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. That's terrific.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Okay.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yes, that's not at all how you want it to be.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I think part of what you're saying is that there's like a lot of it's like too much, which you (inaudible at 00:25:04) to admit and you don't like to admit it and you'd rather not admit it and you think about admitting it. But it also...
 Yeah. The bad thing about that is, you know, this percent where you train, (inaudible at 00:25:21), 24 hours.
 It's too much.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 She tried to ask.
 Well, if you want to have a pity party (inaudible at 00:27:51) to it.
 Oh yeah fine, it's just about what you say.
 Sure.
 No, no, no I totally get it. I was thinking you were meaning it (inaudible at 00:28:05).
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Right.
 I see. So he's traveling a lot?
 What are you worried about screwing up so badly?
 You mean similarly down are...
 Yeah.
 Go ahead, you talk first.
 Is it possible there is a part of you and not the part that you let out which I imagine you're sort of really keeping your arms on, that like is feeling just down and cranky?
 That's like sick of this shit, that's like sick of having to deal with people, that's sick of having so much overwhelming stuff to deal with, sick of being in pain. And that's just pretty fucking (inaudible at 00:32:37) of the whole thing.
 Just checking.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I mean probably because they just want to (inaudible at 00:32:55) fuck the hell off.
 And probably partly because people generally don't have much tolerance for how crappy you're feeling (inaudible at 00:33:18) two good reasons why you shouldn't be feeling that way or something else.
 Yeah.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm.
 Sure.
 But not nearly as bad as for you to feel like...
 ...at some level you're losing all these friends over health problems which were plenty bad to begin with.
 It all sounds among other things, kind of infuriating.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm, yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 And not have to at all be left to you to figure out...
 ...and manage.
 Yeah. (Pause)
 I think so; yeah. (Pause)
 About what? (Laughing)
 Yeah.
 You've been like this since you were ten. And for you, feeling responsible usually means you're responsible for everything, some of which you have control over and some of which you don't.
 I mean for one thing you don't have control over how cranky you feel. You have some control over what you do about it, but not how much you feel it or how overwhelmed I think... [00:38:03]
 ...you feel.
 No.
 I know, you're really good at it, because this isn't amenable to that sort of thing. [00:39:01]
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yep. Yeah, I mean there may be little things you can do here or there to pick up your mood up.
 Or, you know, things that would make you feel a little better or a little worse. Like of course, you know, like trying to (inaudible at 00:41:48) or something like that.
But in the bigger picture you're doing the things you can, you know, like...
 You're getting treatment; you're trying to take care of yourself.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, there's something to be said about beating your head against the wall too.
 Sure, sure, sure. (Pause)
You know, what you're doing, you know, with your life, the best you can, try to do things to help, you know, I mean.
 I expect it will get better. I couldn't tell you when, but...
 Yeah. I think (inaudible at 00:44:13) important to like, you know, demeaning and lonely and empty.
 Yeah. We stop for now.
 (inaudible at 00:44:43) more tomorrow.
 Who said that?
 Let me paraphrase a little what the, the essential part of the things you're concerned about seems to be from what you say.  One seems to be something that you have called competition in the past, and anyway some kind of difference of approach between you and your supervisor, this woman.  And it's around the issue of how to take care of the boys, the little boys.  And you're not sure whether you have a right to your opinions and it seems to take the form of, eh, you don't know what your opinions are.  Because vis-�-vis her you're not certain.  When I put it this way I wonder what it brings to your mind.
 What image comes to your mind when you imagine telling her?
 It seems unlikely you're creating it out of nothing.  It seems more likely you're creating it out of your experience with women who have some control and say about your life.
 And that leaves you worrying, then, about what damage you might do to the boys.
 Somebody else will think you've hurt the boys.
 But someone might think so, you're afraid.
 Hmm.  Well, our time's up.
 Take a deep breath. It's okay. So you're late. It's alright. [00:01:03]
 That's true.
 Start with deep breaths because that's the most basic thing you can do to help yourself calm down. It always works a little bit just to slow down the process.
 We don't know that that's necessarily true.
 There are new medications being developed all the time and a lot of what you're dealing with is anxiety, not depression, and there are lots of antianxiety meds out there.
 Not every day. Are you doing that every day?
 Okay.
 It's okay to have one a day and it's okay to have a two a day. They're very short-acting meds.
 It's not okay to have four a day every day for weeks and weeks on end. Is it okay to do that in emergencies? Yes. But there are other options out there too for antianxiety that are less addictive and that create less of a tolerance. [00:05:17]
 A lot of them have been...
 Right. A lot of them are benzodiazepines, which is what you're thinking of, which tend to create...tend to...people tend to build up a tolerance to them and there are some withdrawal effects which is what makes them addictive, but lots of people use them long-term and don't have...don't have a problem and you've been using them for a long time and haven't had a problem with that. There've been lots of periods of time where you've gone, ya know, for weeks on end without feeling you need to use one and that's...that's very different than someone who's built up a tolerance and you're going through a very difficult period right now and you've been using your meds appropriately and you haven't had a problem. So let's not jump to worrying about addiction...and
 We don't have to separate them so much 'cuz there's lot of overlap.
 Mm hmm...and it doesn't stop that feeling.
 Certainly feeling trapped.
 Do you have a PCP in addition to a psychiatrist or do you not have a PCP on record?
 Can you get an urgent care appointment with your PCP? If this feels like an emergency then you can use urgent care, and while it's important to follow up with your psychiatrist for the best follow-up for your psychiatric meds, your PCP can also prescribe and think about options with you if it's an...
 But you can see someone?
 But you can see someone?
 If you feel like you are having trouble not acting on thoughts to harm yourself that's...
 ...an emergency.
 Not for today but there's a big difference between this afternoon and waiting a month, and if you feel like you can't wait a month and that's the absolute soonest you can get in to see your psychiatrist, then you need to use the urgent care system. That's what urgent care is for...
 There's a difference between emergency room and urgent care. Emergency rooms are for "I need to be seen right now," so this is one...this is a step removed from that because you don't need to be seen right now, but you do feel like you need to be seen before the regular care is available.
 You would talk with the doctor and let them know what your response was. They're not going to make a decision without looking at your chart, ...
 ...without consulting with your doctor.
 You're creating a situation to make it impossible for yourself to get care. You're saying that you can't get in to see you're psychiatrist...
 No, it would not, Georgia. You're not scheduling with dermatology. You'd be scheduling with a primary care MD who has done a psychiatric rotation and is licensed to prescribe psychotropic medication.
 A very brief period of time, but that's not the same training as a primary care physician, and if you want to get urgent care, if you feel like you are not being seen soon enough by your psychiatrist, then you need to use the urgent care system. You can't talk yourself out of any kind of care if you want to get care.
 The system is imperfect but you have to use the system that's there.
 Does that seem like an easier, more reasonable option?
 That's a much higher level of care than using the urgent care system that is in place.
 If you feel that you are...that's it's not...if you feel like it's not reasonable to use the urgent care system, then you're certainly not reasonable to use an inpatient facility (pause). If that's the level of care you feel like you need, I would not stop you from doing that, but it doesn't seem like it's the case. [00:12:20]
 If you are at the level where you feel like you need that level of care then some things need to go by the wayside. If you are at a place where you are still able to keep kosher for Passover then you are not at a place where you need to be in an inpatient unit. We're talking about levels of need here. Inpatient units are for when the bare minimum of keeping yourself safe is the priority. That comes way below being able to make conscious decisions about your...about following religious traditions, and clearly you're at a place where those religious traditions are still really important, which makes me think you're functioning way better than needing to check yourself into an inpatient unit [00:13:38]
 You are sane. You have not lost your sanity. I know you don't feel very good. I know you feel really bad, but you are still sane. You know where you are. You know exactly what's going on. You're hearing your own voice, not somebody else's.
 Okay. Do you have access to that?
 Okay, so that might be a much...
 ...that might be much more appropriate way for you...
 That might be a reasonable option. I think calling, seeing if you have access to their walk-in clinic...and knowing that you have that as a backup. Or finding out if you have that as a backup between now and the time you scheduled your appointment for. [00:16:03]
 No it wouldn't.
 Generally I do recommend that people use a psychiatrist 'cuz I think the follow-up - and the experience of having the specialty is useful - but PCPs do prescribe actually the majority of psychotropic medications in this country and a good PCP...or, ya know, a good MD who you meet with at urgent care that might not be your regular PCP, will consult with your psychiatrist and that's better than just waiting a month if you feel like you can't wait a month. It doesn't mean that you necessarily stick with that recommendation...[ 00:16:52]
 The absolute...
 But anybody you see would make...do that consultation.
 And your psychiatrist only works one day a week?...
 Okay.
 But has an office elsewhere maybe?
 Mmm.
 Mmm. [00:17:58]
 Right, if the situation...
 ...were more stable.
 Well, I can recreate a list for you, but I think right now we need to deal with the immediate which is finding a way for you to get sooner care, and it might...finding a new psychiatrist right now when you're in a time of flux might not be the best time for that. Having somebody on record and keeping that appointment there and you thinking about your urgent care options...
 I'll be happy to look up some providers for you and e-mail you that list by the end of the day so that you have recreation of that. (pause) Blue Cross-Blue Shield is a pretty common insurance.
 Which you are for right now, right?
 Mmm.
 Mmm.
 Very stressful to have to...
 Mmm.
 You're absolutely feeling...feeling something that's very true about the system. There is a shortage of psychiatrists out there which makes access to care really difficult. This is not something that's happening to you. This is something that's happening in the larger community. [00:21:00]
 Mmm.
 Mmm.
 It's just not the chosen specialty for most MDs.
 I'm sorry you're having such trouble getting...getting access to the care that you need (pause).
 Yeah, that makes a hard situation even harder.
 Yeah.
 But that's not...
 Hence the blue fingers, huh? (chuckles)
 Mmm.
 Mmm.
 You're feeling a little distracted and having trouble concentrating?
 Okay.
 Mmm.
 Mmm.
 Uh hmm. It's frustrating 'cuz it didn't come out the way that you were planning.
 Ahh, so you are match socked. [00:25:44]
 So what do you think you're really feeling horrible about? It wasn't the koshering, it's not the sock. What is it that's really bothering you?
 It's a big thing.
 You don't have an immediate way of fixing that...but someday you will get a job and you will have your independence...
 We don't know how much longer it's gonna take. You can't jump ahead a year. You have to focus what's on...if, if that's the thing that's make you most uncomfortable, then I think you're probably pretty on target. Ya know, the financial aspect of having to be dependent on your parents is something that's bothered you for a long time. Continue to focus only on what's in your control and you don't know which of the cover letters and which of the interviews will finally work. You don't know if that's gonna be something that happens relatively quickly from now...relatively soon from now or if that's gonna be something that's in another couple of months or longer. You just don't know. [00:28:20]
 Yeah.
 Right. Uh huh.
 That sounds like you did a good job with that.
 Mmm.
 Huh.
 Right.
 How can they have no benefits?
 Yeah, maybe, maybe that's incorrect what they wrote or...
 Right.
 Maybe it's because it's a temporary position.
 Right. But you send in your stuff anyway and you ask questions if you get an interview.
 Mmm.
 Well, I'm glad you sent it out.
 I'm glad even though, ya know, there's the inconsistency with the posting and there's some questions about it...
 And it's probably a moot point because I'm probably not going to get the interview anyway, so someone else gets to ask why there are not...ya know is this a three-month position? Are there in fact no benefits? How are you supposed to get health insurance then if you're...if it puts you above the bracket? Etcetera, etcetera. But like, I feel like all these jobs ya know, and I applied for this other one at Brown and I haven't heard back from them but maybe it will be a while. Like just...
 It's very hard to wait.
 You gotta hold out hope till you hear back that you didn't get it. Ya gotta hold out hope.
 Well, there's nothing you can do about it now. You sent out your stuff...
 ...You follow up with a phone call, but there's nothing to worry about until you hear back. You can't make decisions, can't ask questions until they call you back.
 If they call you back.
 Georgia—you're not helping yourself by thinking that.
 Jumping ahead and imagining a negative outcome only makes you feel badly.
 So that's the thought that you hold in your head. You're qualified, you have a shot and let your thoughts stop there so that you don't talk yourself into feeling pessimistic. Let yourself hold some hope. We do need to stop for today. You know it's short but do you want to try to schedule for another time this week?
 Maybe while you wait to get in with a psychiatrist or with an MD we can do some extra support here. Um...we can meet Friday. I have some openings in the morning. I had an 11 o'clock or a 12 o'clock.
 I also can meet at 5. I don't know if that's too late.
 I'm sorry I don't have any time to offer you on...
 ...on Wednesday.
 What would you prefer?
 11, 12 or 5.
 Do you want to plan to do that the following week as well and then just kind of keep some extra support in place since it has been...
 Okay, so I can do a 12 o'clock on the 20th as well.
 Okay.
 Alright. So let's put those in place.
 And try to at least give you some extra support here where you do have easy access.
 Yeah.
 Are you getting sick?
 Oh, this is a while ago. 
 So remind me she was saying that you...
 Can you just pause for a minute.
 When that happened I'm missing what's so bad.
 Like the rejected...
 Well she may have for her own reasons.
 Something about it really just sent you...
 Did he say kid?
 You both say it?
 Dave left with you though?
 That's what I was wondering. 
 Being friendly.
 Saying what place?
 A guy? [00:13:02]
 You can feel good about that reaction and yet it also has brought me another exchange that had to or just him saying that to you like another slice of an unfolded evening. 
 I mean his purpose is to humiliate you.
 He's totally aggressive.
 And do it in front of other people. [00:15:21]
 At least on the surface didn't let it look like it...
 So what's so different is that you could have an experience like that that's momentary and it doesn't become an obstacle for the rest of the week or month. [00:16:17]
 So you're adding another thing that you're with it is not looking back and just blaming only yourself and beating yourself up.
 We know how it's so different know and how your mind has managed this after the fact. It also does sound like there's still a lot though to unpack about...
 So what is happening that's happening?
 What stops you right there? I don't know. I don't know. Whatever.
 You know that already though. You sort of moved to that statement and it shuts down what you were just opening up. Do you know what I mean?
 It's hard to talk about it.
 Even as you say because it's not true because I can have all the girls I want. (inaudible at 00:22:57). It's almost like you're reassuring yourself and reassuring me that it can't be true that that rejection... [00:23:05]
 Let me back you up a little bit in the story. So before you see Paige, before you are sure who Paige is, you whizzed through the beginning of the story so I'm not going to try to understand all the details. You joined Penny there?
 So this is the first time you've seen her in a while or...
 Okay.
 So already is there something before the whole Paige thing...
 And brought up feeling rejected? What were your feelings with her? [00:25:16]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. And I think you know that's even the point.
 I know you know in some way it's an irrational feeling, but still what's that feeling? Is it rejected... Did it have to do with her pointing out something about you being a player? Was that...
 Yeah.
 A couple of people who were all friends?
 In that group. Yeah. Who would say you were a player?
 There goes Brian again.
 Well I think they're intricately related to each other. One of the things you're describing is feeling safe, and comfortable, and good enough about yourself if she, whoever she is, is in your control. If you know you can do X, Y, Z and X, Y, and Z happens, it's in your control, you can feel good. When she responds in a way that's not in your control or isn't responsive to what you're doing I think it plummets. So it's the feeling of not being omnipotent, constantly the one in control, and you feeling like nothing's in your control, no one loves you. There's a powerless in a way. It's like always totally powerful or powerless. [00:29:11]
 It sends you back to an earlier place in your development where I think you didn't feel in control.
 You sound like... I mean we don't have all the history and data to know, but it sounds like that natural phase in kid's development where they actually have the fantasy of being omnipotent grandeur. I'm the center of the world, and my parents love everything about me, and they're all about me. That gradually fades and you guys know the reality of parents are separate people and they live their own lives. It just doesn't sound like you ever had that. You weren't the center of their universe. So there's a part of you still never got that and feels alone, and alienated, and like nothing. [00:30:22]
 And I think at some point—I don't know when you mark this exactly, you need to start to kind of intuitively find this way of getting women in your control. There's what you call charm, something...
 You know how to kind of hone in. We've talked about this in so many different ways and you get her to respond. And you have felt better, and better, and better about yourself the more you developed and could feel that working like that worked. It was effective. Even in places where you could've never of imagined it, it worked. But then these few places where it doesn't work it's like the deficit inside gets sort of a bright light shown on it. With the place where it's not in your control it feels like you're devastated. That there must be something really uncomfortable about it. 
 They're come from a compensatory place. Right. [00:32:11]
 And it's possible it's not coming from a genuine place in her either whoever her is. If it's a seductive powering control, it's not two minds mutually agreeing to come towards each other. So it leaves you still, I think, with this like if that's not happening constantly you're back with the hole inside. So Penny back when even saying gee you're such a player sort of labeling that and knowing that makes it not an effective strategy. Like she's going to put that out there and then maybe interested, maybe flirt, but essentially play you only and not go any further either. And it leaves this kind of irritation about whether people would really fall for you. So that gets triggered walking into the bar. [00:33:23]
 This is the 16 year old?
 That you have a chance that she's like your mother. 
 Oh exactly. The chance that she's...
 You're bumping up against there being in places inside like your age or a woman who isn't interested for whatever reason that night they're in these pockets of tremendous shame still. But I think we haven't even opened all the reasons why is 41 so shameful. It's so much shame it's unspeakable even in your own mind. It hits this well of shame I think. The woman or whatever she's not interested and she says it in a kind of humiliating way for her own self, for whatever reason, it comes out in a way that is kind of meant to be a rejection. And it sort of hits this nerve and it goes into this well of stuff that you felt as a kid I think. Like when you say you feel like you're 12 again, what are you picturing? [00:39:03]
 When that comes to mind that was a fantasy. Are you at school? Is it you and your family? What? You just at home alone? 
 Outside even in your own family you feel like an outsider? 
 (Pause) Is also occurs to me that you thought Paige at first was Karen instead of Karen so she may have been humiliated. 
 You don't think she would be hurt? [00:41:13]
 It wouldn't extreme. It's not like you had a long conversation earlier in the night or something?
 Yeah.
 There's got to be some forgiveness.
 (Pause) Do you remember that you patted me on the shoulder when you said look who's running late now?
 Uh huh. 
 I bring up just thinking about your feeling the condescension of her patting you on the back.
 Do you not remember?
 What are you sorry for when you say that?
 Well it might be a little bit. 
 In other words...
 It could be. That's why my mind was just open about it.
 If you are used to feeling humiliated when you're late, or when you're not here, and just sitting with your shame, to have the tables turned and all the sudden, at least, there's someone feeling embarrassed it's me not you. You've been, I think, humiliated and shamed in your childhood. It's ways we still have to get into. Sometimes that could get inside a person and it's better to be the one humiliating than humiliated. [00:44:23]
 I certainly don't mean consciously.
 You were in a very particular mood that day too. It doesn't always feel like that's in the room, but...
 You were kind of on top of the world. 
 Uh huh. It was a beautiful day. You'd seen the turkey.
 No. 
 You can get a little hyper manic sometimes but not in a place that pushes to it to that.
 I think of it more along the lines of the fluctuations in self esteem which is different than endogenous mood. Do you know what I mean like in your brain?
 But when things feel like you describe it as the stars aligning and things are going well you can get really happy and then really down on yourself. I think that's probably what I'm doing is trying to integrate.
 Much less.
 (Pause) You want to talk about Thursday? 
 11:00?
 5-103, client number 0735-103. This, is session number, either 13 or 14, I forget which. I think it's session number 14. This is1970; 1970, session number 14. And what's more, I only (ph) have to take a phone call in the middle. 
 Like in sometimes, you're ...
 Like you've talked about every subject that you can think of.
 Yeah. [1:59]
 It's really different because, like, usually you would have been wondering if she was there.
 OK. It's not - it sounds like it not so much that you decided I'm going to trust her. It's like, it isn't - unless you really [roll it] (ph) an issue for you at this point. 
 [Do you think that's destructing] (ph), or?
 [And it's worth a lot here] (ph).
 Yeah, I wasn't quite sure what you meant about trusting yourself more. 
 It's not quite clear, but it has something to do with your own relationship to yourself. 
 Accept yourself maybe, or?
 And somehow recognizing that it is both up and down.
 The bottom of the only thing.
 I know what a playing curve is.
 But that's enough kid (laughter). 
 The other thing I got out of what you said is like maybe even some kind of perspective where instead of being, even when your down, like of instead of being just in the pit, like you can also see it as part of the playing curve. 
 I figure it's his [rough hands].
 But last night, you just didn't ask or didn't want to.
 Tiny bit.
 Yeah, you're wondering if anyone had touched her. 
 It's something of a - yesterday feeling that you had earned your pay like really set you differently with yourself. 
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, it would have been nice if he could have known about it as well as you knowing about it.
 So it's important that he gives you points as well as you given yourself points.
 You thought about one more thing that's hours away.
 So it sounds like you kind of relish the poetic justice in it.
 He created the problem, and you can dump it right back on him.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I guess you could look at this as a lesson he could learn with compared (ph) to a lot of people, including you. 
 Yeah, if he makes a mistake, it's his problem. You've be dammed if you were going to take it on yourself.
 And not covering up for him.
 I guess it kind of feels twist to you to think that you could do a really good job running things.
 Maybe they don't recognize that you could do a better job than he does. 
 So like say he was like - him saying he appreciates it isn't quite enough. He wants really to get you motivated; you want to tell him this - it's the bread. To get 100 percent out of you, you got to get some pay.
 Yeah but you're not going to sell yourself for cheap. 
 It sounds like you kind of resent it.
 [To you] (ph) that might really be the way to do it.
 How do you mean there? 
 What makes you say that?
 Don't have the kind of personality and, I don't know, dynamism or whatever have you.
 Sure.
 Hmm.
 Very formidable task and maybe not worth the effort. 
 Yeah, that's not your style. I mean you don't ...
 Yeah and you don't see putting a whole lot of effort and energy when there isn't something coming back to you.
 Excuse me?
 Let's hope so.
 Yeah, right.
 That irks you when people are inefficient; people don't seem to care about doing what needs to be done. [26:30]
 Right.
 [Would that be enough] (ph) for you? 
 How does that make you feel to think of your boss [sitting around]?
 Like if you're accomplishing well economically, you want to feel good about yourself and confident. 
 I guess in a way it kind of gulls you that he's got a more responsible position than you have and, especially, when you could do it as well.
 So the key (inaudible at 32:01) that brings you down.
 It's almost like you've been - you can see it with the boss being the boss with a master's degree and having a responsibility because of that. If you got corresponding responsibility having a bachelor's degree ...
 Yeah but you don't like being on the lowest room.
 He doesn't recognize your value. It says you're not worth much. 
 Maybe that makes some kind of sense that - in a sense that both at home and on the job, you want to be an effective man and recognized as such.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're God damn well aren't going to do it without the credit either. [36:46]
 Which must make this job unsatisfying in that way, so it's just by not ...
 You can't feel it doing nothing. But I guess it's relevant in a sense. It's just like succeeding the value (ph) is real important to you.
 Yeah. I didn't mean that you were unusual (inaudible at 38:02).
 For you to, like, accomplishing something makes you feel secure and not accomplishing something makes you feel depressed and insecure. 
 Yeah, kind of defining your accomplishment as more [they come] (ph). 
 (Inaudible at 39:00)
 Yeah, yeah.
 And it's OK not to be the number one boss, but they better not start treating you like a peon. 
 [Sure you need 15 minutes] (ph). Do I have any smaller (inaudible at 40:11) at that time?
 1:15 
 I have 1:15 to 2:30.
 OK. 
 Right.
 Bye. [41:00]
 ...11-02 - Emma... [inaudible]... 
 Okay, what's going on good?
 [inaudible]... okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Oh, what's going on with your skin this week?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Now what is that?
 Right. [nonverbal 'yes'?]
 Hold on now. I guess - what, what is rosacia? I'm not familiar with that.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Bummed out how?
 Let me see your arms. I don't... 
 Oh, okay. That's why I say, I didn't see any redness.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Well that must be frustrating?
 I mean especially if you're going to the doctors who, they're supposed to be the experts... 
 ...supposed to be able to let you know when you have this thing wrong with your body, really don't know what it is.
 And you go to people who you think should and they don't, I mean that's... 
 Okay. Okay.
 Upset?
 [nonverbal 'yes'] Well, now when you say that, 'Well I'm happy.' - I mean, let me ask you this. What caused you to come here today, although you have issues with your skin and you have this cold sore, I mean, usually?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay. Well were you at all concerned about how I would respond or?
 [I see it]. (ph)
 Okay.
 Okay. Why do you think it was important to let me know that you had a cold sore?
 Okay.
 Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well it's fine. (both chuckling) I can see you with a cold sore or no cold sore, red skin, no red skin. Okay. Okay. But I can imagine, just hearing you describe it, how overwhelming that would be to have to always be under the impression that you have to explain what's going on with your physical self... 
 ...if something comes up or that fear of how people will look at you or judge you differently or whatever, based on some physical things that you don't have control over.
 You know, just how...that would be for somebody.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Yeah, because if you wouldn't have said anything, I wouldn't have noticed it.
 Well your skin and your cold sore, I didn't really notice it until you... [overlapping voices at 0:05:05.6]... 
 Sure.
 Yeah. So it's about how to use, begin seeing yourself maybe - I would say maybe in terms of how other people truly see you... 
 ...or just the reality of the situation, rather than looking through magnifying glasses?
 That's sure.
 Obsessing, yes.
 So it sounds like what your sister thinks or her influence on you is pretty strong? That you value?
 Okay.
 And it seems like you value her perceptions of you or?
 And then for her to recommend that you come here and share that with me, and for you to follow-up with that, I think says... 
 ...a lot. What do you think that's about?
 Well, no, from your end. From your - I mean, her telling you something or recommending that you do something, and your coming in here and actually following up on it. Like what, why? Why do you think you chose to do that?
 Okay. What does that panic look like, little forms of panic look like?
 Yeah. Did it take away from the work you were supposed to be doing?
 Okay. Well... 
 Sure.
 Because you'd probably be up all night and all sorts of things... 
 ...at home? Okay.
 Okay. So as she said, that you hold it all in?
 Okay.
 Well it seems like it's significant to you though... 
 ...and that makes it a big deal... 
 ...even if other folks don't see it as a big deal. Like for instance, where you said to me about the cold sore being red, I may not see it as being red. But I think what's important is the way you see it and how you feel with it. So I mean if it's important to you, it's important for you to share...that I can see how...you will probably not engage in more discussions with people who...will minimize your feelings or minimize your experience.
 Is that familiar, at all, to feel like your feelings or your thoughts aren't important or aren't significant?
 Do you find that in our relationship or... 
 ...in this room?
 Okay.
 But it's important Emma. You know a big part of therapy and, is not only looking at the relationships and how they play out in your past or in your present, but also how they play out here.
 And I'm wondering if you ever felt as though I wasn't listening to you... 
 ...or whatever the case is? How would you address that do you think?
 Okay. Okay.
 Oh, okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sure.
 And who were those people back then that you would've wanted to check up on you or to see how you were doing and checking up on you?
 Okay.
 By yourself or?
 Okay.
 This is your - is this your dad's brother or your mom's brother?
 Mom's brother?
 Okay. Okay.
 Yeah.
 And he passed away in November?
 Okay.
 Okay. How are you anticipating that anniversary, with it being a couple of weeks away?
 Okay. What do you mean?
 Sure. Well that's interesting [isn't it though?] (ph)
 How long ago did he pass away? You said two - it will be two years in November?
 Okay. And you mentioned that he was in a lot of pain? How did he die?
 Oh. Where were you - I mean, were you there with him when he passed away or how did that... [overlapping voices at 0:14:05.9]... 
 Okay. Were you able to go to the funeral and... 
 ...and process some (ph) things... 
 ...and all that stuff?
 Were you able to at all share with him how you felt about him or?
 Okay. Okay. Well I can imagine how it must have been a significant loss for you?
 Well, this is like the place to be.
 How do you feel being emotional in here?
 Okay. What would be embarrassing about that?
 Okay.
 You don't think losing your grandfather, who was that close to you, is a specific enough reason to be emotional?
 Oh, Emma.
 Yeah?
 Oh? Is this one of those weeks?
 Oh. Do you want to share more about why you feel that way or?
 Okay.
 People would say things like?
 Why is it, for you that life seems as though you're doomed for these things or that it has to get worse? Where do you think you've gotten that information or that message?
 So before, it seems like before you think about these things improving... 
 ...or getting better... 
 Right.
 Yeah. It seems like it, they'd have to get worse before...for you?
 Do you think that like if somebody else had this or had acne, do you assume that it, it will, it's the worse thing for them or?
 Okay.
 How did your grandfather see you physically or?
 Okay.
 It was non issue... 
 ...he didn't comment on mostly?
 Okay.
 And that message or that determination has come from where? [silence from 0:18:47.7 to 0:18:54.6] This idea that your physical appearance will determine how people will look at you?
 These people are significant to you?
 Okay, I mean that's what I meant.
 Could that at all interfere in though the way that they saw you? Or what they pointed out, did it interfere in the type of interaction they would have with you?
 So rather, being obsessed or obsessive about different parts of yourself though, is if it's not - okay, so now that you've got your acne under control, your teeth are straight, now it's this other thing. Or it wasn't - it was your weight before and now it's something else. What do you think you'll move to after that, after your eyes are?
 What, what helped you get over that do you think?
 Because of the exercising again, right?
 Do you have cellulite?
 Okay. And you're okay with that?
 Okay. So once you've determined it in your mind that, 'Okay. This is - that I actually really don't have control.'
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Well what about in your relationship with Jerrry? And this may be a personal question, but are you all intimate sexually... 
 ...at all? Okay. How, and does this inhibit the way you present yourself to him or?
 Okay. How do you try and hide it?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Are you able to be completely naked with him or... 
 ...do you have issues?
 Okay.
 Okay. Okay. Okay. Has it at all, your cautiousness around your body or being particular about how you present yourself, has that interfered in your love making or... 
 ...has he noticed anything or... 
 ...like that?
 Oh, okay. Okay.
 Okay. Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah. Fragile in what sense?
 Okay. So it's interesting, because in previous sessions you've...presented yourself as being a tough person, right? A tough person and now I'm hearing...this perception of yourself as being fragile.
 Okay.
 So it sounds like that could be a conflict, you know?
 On the inside you know your fragile things are affecting you and you're hurt about things, but you can't present that to the world. What is that like? Or do you experience a conflict about that or?
 And do you feel like you have to protect that part of yourself and not present that to others? [0:24:19.5]
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Yeah, that is very normal.
 You know, when folks, some folks have a bad hair day...that can affect somebody's whole day, right? Because you - and but if you just get your hair done or whatever the case is, then there is a sense, a boost of confidence and...you can be up front or out front and be okay with yourself, right?
 And do you feel a pull, like internal conflict of this tough exterior and this fragile inside or?
 Okay.
 Has that become like a defense do you think?
 What is, in your eyes, normal for you?
 Sure.
 Sure.
 In what ways?
 And if it's something that's treatable, like a steroid something, does that?
 Okay.
 I know.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Oh, sure.
 Sure. That's why I heard you say it's in the 70's, when people start getting it?
 So you're going to go to the doctor next week?
 Okay. And when will it be, next week be though?
 Friday? Okay. [I'm sure that will be fine.] (ph) Okay.
 Yeah. On an intellectual level, right?
 Yeah.
 When you say - well you said something earlier about, 'you don't want people to view you as vain', right? What would it mean if they did have that view of you?
 Okay.
 Sure.
 Making assumptions about you?
 Yeah. It's difficult to say what other people's assumptions about you are, especially when...you know who you are or you try to be this typical type of person or a particular type of person, and for people to still make their own assumptions, right?
 Is it because of the reactions you would get from other people or just? Because you're saying on one hand that it's not about their reactions or their feelings within. On some level it seems like that is it?
 How so?
 Sure. [0:30:22.9]
 Okay. To not even notice, where this would be a non issue?
 Okay.
 It sounds like you almost want them to see you for you, whatever you - the you is or - you know what I mean?
 Yeah. How do you understand projection? How would you say that?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay. Okay. So you feel insecure about yourself, and so you assume what other folks would notice... 
 ...[also, a way you don't feel?] (ph)
 Okay.
 Yeah, okay.
 Who said that?
 Oh.
 Okay. Well it sounds like have started making some connections on last week, as far as - well in fact a couple of weeks before, it sounds like have made some connections on, perhaps why you are so insecure with your body or unable to...gladly accept compliments. You had mentioned a few things from past issues or from your past that may be playing themselves out in how you think about yourself and really feel about yourself now?
 Do you remember those things you mentioned or?
 Okay. Well, we talked about not being able maybe - now just last week talked about issues around your dad... 
 ...and his vanity, and how he would criticize... 
 ...your physical appearance. And it sounded as though your dad's opinion of you mattered a lot. But you couldn't really quite understand or figure out why he was so focused on your physical self...with comparison, in comparing you to Jennifer?
 I was going to say Teresa.
 But I'm like, 'Wait, wait, wait a minute.' Yeah, Teresa... 
 ...and Jennifer. Oh, okay.
 Okay. Okay. Then Teresa and Jennifer, and not receiving a whole lot of praise and compliments as a kid from your parents, when would you be able to be - wouldn't be acceptable of them now, if you don't really - if you hadn't had practice in just...accepting one (ph)?
 Definitely. How, and how come do you understand that happens? 
 Yeah.
 So it sounds like maybe you maybe have had to do that in that period to survive?
 You know because if you would've - if, I mean realistically Emma, looking at that time period of your life in the way that I understand it and that you describe it to me, if you would've stopped to think about some of the pain and emotional pain, you were going through, in that house and in the chaos or whatever the case is, do you think you really would've been able to function in school the way that you had or... 
 ...looked out for your siblings the way that you had?
 No. You know our bodies, especially as children...we view (ph) them, this is why defenses are useful in a sense...because the defenses help guard you and protect you and let you continue to survive and move on, right? But although the defenses are up and we really don't allow ourselves that time to process what's really happened, we're really experiencing, it doesn't mean that we're not being affected by it.
 It's just that our mind is working in a way to help shield us or help us store it away, help us...put it to the side so that we can function on a day-to-day basis, right? But somehow those things still leave imprints on us... 
 ...and they can manifest themselves in the way we see ourselves or in our relationships or in our job performance or expectations of others. Those things still leave a mark and come out in some kind of way.
 Okay?
 And then that's why I ask, what will be next? What else will make you happier?
 You just fill in the blank. So we have to figure out, why is it that where you are right now, why is that never good enough? You know because once that gets fixed or that gets cleared it seems like something else will come in its place... [0:36:21.5]
 ...that will just reinforce this whole thing about, 'I'm not good enough.'
 So, or, 'I'm not happy.' You know, 'This one thing will make me happier.'
 [nonverbal 'yes']
 Yeah. What I came up with - I know we talked about coming up with some goals and having this product of things... 
 ...right? And that's what it seems like I'm hearing from you Emma, too. Where you talked about last week of having to have a product, you know?
 It seems like you've gone through a series of products in your life to help yourself feel better about whatever the situation is. You got braces. You...a product that's helped you...with your weight or with these, your eyes, it's always kind of a product, right?
 And that makes sense in a...in a way.
 You know, to help you feel better, feel whole, there has to be something out there... 
 ...that will take of this, right?
 In a part of our therapy we talk about having a product, maybe coming up with a treatment plan or something that we can work on together that could help you.
 But this type of product, hopefully, will - we're going to resolve some of these maybe past conflicts. And they weren't resolved... 
 ...initially? So that you don't have to continue to live life searching out products that make you better or... 
 ...or keep coming up with other things you're not...that you can't settle with being good enough with yourself or whatever.
 Okay? So I want to take the last few... 
 ...minutes to just go over that with you... 
 ...and get your input... 
 ...because what you think is very important. So this is...your work, you're paying for it.
 You know and it's - and...I really want to make sure that we're - well I've got it over here - working together. And this is really small print, so I hope that's - I was trying to get it all on one page, so you... 
 ...didn't have it on two pages. But basically, the treatment plan is a list of, what are some target areas? And over the time that we've talked, over these last past five sessions, four or five sessions, list some things of some things that you may have wanted to work on. And then what I've done is come up with...looking at what those areas look like, and then coming up with maybe some long-term goals?
 And then some short-term objectives. And then the actual ways that we can work on those things.
 Okay, now this is something that's not set in stone. It can be changed. We will look at it, reevaluate where we are, and maybe add or take away or...those sorts of things.
 Okay?
 So the first one, the biggest one that you talk about, is insecurity and low self-esteem, as an area that you maybe want to focus on?
 And these are some of the things that I listed that helped me come up with that conclusion. You know, the inability to accept compliments. Making the self-disparaging remarks...see yourself as unattractive, worthless or a burden and unimportant. And that's basically what you were, I thought... [0:39:25.9]
 ...that you were sharing with me, especially with, you don't feel as though you can talk to certain people about what's going on because they wouldn't listen or... 
 ...you know, those sorts of things. And identify - inability to identify positive things in yourself. And I put that - and it's good to hear today that you can say, you know, 'I do have a solid personality. I know I'm a nice person.'
 You know, because prior to this session, I didn't really hear you confirm or affirm positive things in yourself. And I think, and I actually asked you at one point, and you really, it seemed like you really took some time to really - I mean, I think I asked you, why does Jerry like you... 
 ...or what would make Jerry want to hang out with you? And it seemed like you struggled with coming up... 
 ...you know, coming up with a list of things. So does that part... 
 ...resonate with you at all?
 Okay. So a long-term goal for us, is to elevate self-esteem and really work on establishing this inward sense of self-confidence... 
 ...and worth and realize that you are an important person, significant or a good person or whatever... 
 ...those things are. Okay?
 Okay. And then just a short-term objective, increase insight into the historical and current sources of your low self-esteem or insecurity. And that's when we talk about, talking about these historical events, historicals (ph) have in your life that may have left these imprints on why you devalue yourself at some times or why you have an increased preoccupation about your physical self.
 Okay.
 So again, I would talk about maybe your dad's issues or how your dad related to you, how your mom related to you, and I guess, stepdad related to you...how kids at school related to your physical self... 
 ...if that's what you think is the...one of the sources. And then we put down here, as I'm thinking about it, not just your low self-esteem, but today you talked about like preoccupation, preoccupation that you have with your physical self.
 [silence from 0:41:39.7 to 0:41:50.0] And, okay. We have some interventions that I thought about and to help you become aware of your fear of rejection and its connection with past rejection or of, may (ph) have been experiences.
 You know, then talk about this idea that, if people see you and see this, then somehow...they'll make some kind of comment maybe that has some sort...that fear of losing them or... 
 ...the - then we talk about Jerry and this new relationship, how these insecurity issues may push him away if you... [0:42:26.9]
 Okay. You're crying again. What's going on with you?
 Surprising?
 Yeah. Because you're the one who shared all this. I wouldn't have been able to... 
 No. Now what is like - why is it that you you're a - why do you perceive that as being a wreck Emma?
 Sharing your feelings, sharing your appreciation or sharing this idea that you feel finally understood and finally heard and you have emotions, why is that a wreck?
 Because - I know and that makes sense, right?
 And that's why I'm trying to challenge that a little bit... 
 ...to help you see. Because when I think of wreck, I think of... 
 ...disaster. I think of chaos. I think of people being hurt or... 
 ...turmoil.
 Who (ph) - but it's an adjective that sounds like it's real to you, right?
 Of how you connect experiencing emotion, not just experiencing it but sharing it?
 Right?
 And there's no wreck in this room. There is not - and it may feel that way... 
 ...you know? But what you're doing is healthy... 
 ...to be able to share yourself and share what you feel like and have emotion connected to it. That's a very healthy, human... 
 Crying's helping process.
 Okay? Yeah. I mean I'm...and with that kind of stuff I think. But...I mean that's important and that's totally... 
 ...understandable that you would have that emotional reaction.
 Okay? Now is there anything you would add to this section up here that you want to see or?
 Okay.
 Okay. One question I would - that came up as I was writing this, when I thought about the second incident - I mean the second intervention I have down here is, help you interpret incidents of abuse and how they impacted your feelings about yourself. And I know on the forms you completed, you mentioned emotional abuse, and I wanted to ask you, has there ever been any sexual abuse... 
 ...or anything like that?
 Okay.
 Okay. Because that's, you know... 
 ...because with females that's... 
 ...very common, so I just typically ask.
 Okay. The other area was the family conflict. And you talk about long periods of non communication with your parents. And I'm not sure how much you wanted to work on that in here. Some of the things that I'm thinking about is, just resolving that fear of rejection, low self-esteem, kind of like what we talked about up here... 
 ...that developed in your family. (phone ringing) You know and understanding how it connects to...what's going on with them.
 Give me a minute. (answering phone - Hi, this is Betty.) [audio blip at 0:46:10.2 to 0:46:16.8] If you like we can... 
 ...talk about this. But just look it over. You can take a little bit of it over with you.
 Look it over on your own and come back and we can talk about it.
 Because I thought maybe at some point, later on down the road, even if it's in letter writing, like...sharing with your parents how you truly feel about some things, if you want to do that. Or maybe if they were interested in coming in for a session, where you could actually go through and have a discussion with them...I'd be willing to facilitate something like that.
 You know but just look at this, take a look at it.
 And if there's any area that you think is important that isn't listed here, outside of insecurity, family conflict and child trauma, let me know.
 And it goes - or ways that you think you can be helped better.
 Yeah. And now I'm - [when I write I'm able to specific] (ph) area and I kind of play around with it. So for the weekend it's just the preoccupation and obsessiveness about physical self.
 Okay. And if it doesn't you let me know?
 Okay. Because it's totally okay. This is a, like I said, working backwards... 
 ...and then come up with together, so, Do you want to come back next week?
 Okay. That is the 9th. I can't believe it's... [overlapping voices at 0:47:41.6] ...already.
 Oh, was it?
 Yeah. Do you like winter or no?
 Oh, yeah.
 (making noise) Well maybe, I think it's I just don't like driving in it... 
 ...and the fact that... 
 ...you know, go through winter without driving on the icy roads, I'd love it.
 Because I like the holiday season and I think so. So... [inaudible at 0:48:16.5] ...Andrea.
 Okay?
 Okay. You have a good week and that (ph).
 Take care.
 Go over ever aspect of this thing (ph).
 Okay. Bye-bye. [0:48:28.5]
 All right.
 I'm okay. Sorry to keep you waiting.
 Sorry to keep you waiting?
 I see.
 I see. That sounds kind of sunny.
 That sounds kind of sunny.
 Sunny? Yes, like happy.
 Well that's good.
 Do you know what made the last week tough? I mean, I'm aware that is overall the trend, but my impression is that from how you're describing it I got the impression like worse then recently?
 We had a bit longer sort of a gap than usual. Did that contribute?
 Things feel lifeless. [00:10:05]
 That.
 I guess that's my impression...
 ...that you're sort of pretty ambivalent.
 And then you also want to be honest with it. You want to in part share what's going on.
 So your wearing a bathing suit is really silly.
 Have you continued to keep from hurting yourself?
 I was going to say it doesn't sound like that's been easy.
 But clearly it's hard to keep from being hard on yourself.
 Yes. I imagine you felt pretty on your own for the last, most of the last week. I mean Franco's gone. I know you've been talking to James on the phone but he hasn't been physically around. We had a bit of a bigger gap than usual. [00:18:16]
 I guess part of the reason I'm being that way about you being alone is something about the way that you sort of come in. And I know you're just kind of catching me up on how things have been, but I don't know. There's something about the way that you're sort of presenting how awful things have been, how much it took out of you go to the event Sunday night, and how hard it's been at times not to be cutting yourself, and how much there is I guess often that sort of intense feeling of self hatred that you kind of know is there and feels like something to keep at a distance. I don't know, there's just something about the way that you're sharing it that makes me feel like in the moment you often feel very much by yourself with it.
 I see.
 Yes, I suspect then that there's something missing, although I don't know what that would be. I'm sorry.
 I don't know what that is and it's clear that you don't either or you would say so. But I imagine it's because there's some aspect of it or some level of it or something about it that's somehow getting left out.
 That's great evidence for me too, yes. [00:26:02]
 [inaudible at 00:26:59] outside of yourself?
 Yes.
 Yes, I'm not sure what to say.
 Yes?
 That's just a riot.
 I don't know if that's all there. One other part I wonder about is the extent to which it puts a good face on neglect.
 So it really was a time you often spent together? [00:36:01]
 Unlike the time behind your house in the woods?
 The what? [00:38:17]
 What's that?
 That's what I thought. Or find it naturally and bring it with you.
 Over the next year?
 It probably follows that you're wondering about it from a grown-up perspective. You already walked the world that you did at the time where whatever happens would seem pretty normal. Does it still seem kind of normal or like a problem or what? Is that right?
 Which you did from what age?
 So running around town, in the woods, whatever and you've come up pretty nice.
 I guess at the end of the day it seems to me it would help to put light on what it was like for you. I don't know like how annoying that feeling of being alone or afraid or keep - you know what I mean? I guess it would seem to me only to come back to how well it worked for you or didn't work.
 We'll stop for now.
 So, [PATIENT NAME] uh, I saw you back in November, on the [DATE]. Things were pretty, going pretty well for you, an occasional headache but I think mood wise things were going fairly well. Um, today was this kind of a going to be a regularly scheduled appointment or was this something more precipitated by something going on with you?
 All right.
 You, yeah you’re scheduled by the end of February but this is something different?
 All right, well, tell me what’s been happening.
 Mm-hmm
 Mm-hmm.
 Were you taking both the Lamictal and-
 Cymbalta in the morning?
 Okay. 
 Okay.
 And you feel sad?
 Crying?
 When you say your thoughts, what about your thoughts?
 You’re lacking energy and motivation?
 That’s a bad combination. 
 Any thoughts about hurting yourself? Any thoughts about wishing you weren’t around, running away? 
 Okay. Hmm, anything else different in your life? Situation at home, drinking, drugging, anything there?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, do you, do you know what happened? Do you have any clue? You’ve been pretty stable for a while.
 You’re talking about what?
 Specifically.
 Mm-hmm.
 Did the way you look change or did, or do the way you see yourself change?
 Yeah.
 Well, if it’s important to you to know how much you weigh, and not just by how your clothes fit than actually have a number, not that you should be obsessed with a scale, but you know, get on a scale every, you know, once a week, once every two weeks and see what, what the numbers are doing there.
 Well, but at least you’ll know what you’re up against, you know, did you gain a pound, did you gain ten pounds, did you gain nothing? You’d like to know that. Many people don’t care, many people are overly concerned about that.
 But if you believe you’re gaining weight, well, you should try to see if that’s correct and how much you may be gaining. You know, look, uh, I feel that we should do something here with the medications. But you and I have been down the road of being on many different things in the past. And besides exposing you to side effects, we may lose ground from where we’ve gotten to.
 And, and because you had responded well to this, I mean I’d like to believe that it was not just coincidental that these medicines had something to do with getting to, getting where you are.
 Okay, but here, here’s a couple things. Neither the Lamictal or Cymbalta are horrible drugs in terms of causing weight gain. It’s possible that either one of them could be contributing to your weight gain, but they’re not like huge, huge players in that, in that game. I would have some second thoughts about whether or not we should change, switch you from one drug to another drug but, you know, both of these drugs work different ways, both of them will help with depression, um, although I have people on higher than sixty milligrams the manufacture says it’s probably not where you should go. I’m not having problems with that, and I’ve had people do respond to a higher dose of the Cymbalta than what you’re taking. Um, if I was going to make a change in either of these two medicines I think my, I would lean more towards rasing the Lamictal from a hundred to a hundred and fifty. Now, again when we make changes, we don’t want to make too many changes-
 And not know what helped, what hurt, what caused new problems or what fixed the problem. And so, we should probably take it a little slow and one step at a time. People have described Lamictal as helping to put a good you know, floor under you, a good support under you, to keep you from sinking down and I think I may have told you, Most people find that between a hundred and two hundred milligrams a day is where you want to be with that drug. I’ve had people on higher, I’ve had people on lower but you know, since, it’s been a very effective drug in this regard and for you, I think maybe if we raise it to one fifty, that may help things. People have talked about certain drugs kind of petering out on them-
 And we see it more often with drugs like um, Prozac, and some of the SSI’s. I mean I know it’s been described to an SSRI, the Cymbalta, but I’ve not seen it as frequently. I don’t know if the Cymbalta’s petering out. I can tell you that switching from morning to night time should not make any difference in how effective either drug is for you. And you’re thinking is good that you know, certainly certain drugs can have certain side effects that if you move it to different time of day, you may help minimize those side effects. So that is, that was a good thought you had. Didn’t seem to make a difference though. You did or did not ever take Provigil? 
 Did not, why didn’t you ever do that, did I think it wouldn’t be a good choice for you or?
 No, we have not?
 Yes.
 They can. But you know, again, you’ve been taking this combination for a good time now.
 So, so why are you-?
 You know what, heres what, heres what I’m thinking, okay, I’m getting ahead of myself, but I’m. When people have problems with depression, sometimes they sleep too little, sometimes they sleep too much, sometimes they lose weight, sometimes they gain weight, now that type of a-typical kind of depression where uh, you know, you, or, or just called diurnal variation, sometimes that responds to different drugs better than other drugs. And, did, did you ever hear of this new drug called Emsam? 
 It’s a patch that you wear. 
 It is not a new drug, nor is it new class of drug, it’s actually a MAOI, Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor. 
 And that really helps people who have some of the symptoms that you’re describing. Um, it tends to be activating simulating, its been a great drug and um, because it’s a patch, you can avoid some of the baggage that you had with the older, these drugs, this class of drugs that’s MAOI’s, they’ve been around for a long time. Still used, really relegated to the real train wrecks, the guys that haven’t responded to the other drugs or have been on it for years and years and years and it works, they stay on it. But it’s a pain to use these drugs because you can’t use um, you cant eat certain foods, because of the potentials of reaction that can occur and you, and you shoot your blood pressure up. You can’t use over the counter things for colds and coughs with them, for the same reason. And so, its been, its been a drug that we know is very effective, but, a class that has been effective, but we haven’t used it all that much. Now, I have patients on some of these older MAOI’s this, this new drug, because its absorbed through your skin, you don’t have to worry about any food interactions and I’ve probably used it about thirty people by now. 
 Uh, and I’ve had really good results. Now, the thing is, um, you can’t be on Cymbalta and be on that drug. Because there’s another again, that interaction might take place. You should be off of the medicine for at least a week before you go on that. 
 Sometimes I’ve not followed that to the ‘T’ because I had a person two months back that was ready for the hospital uh, he was so depressed I haven’t seen a depression like that in many years, and uh, I had to act quickly uh, to avoid him ending up in the hospital and he, when I saw him a week later, he was much, much better. So, I have some reservations you know, of switching you off the Cymbalta and Lamictal combination. Here’s, heres what I, would be a few options to discuss. Maybe do this, raise the Lamictal to one fifty, lower the Cymbalta to thirty, and consider going off of the Cymbalta with the idea of you know, either leaving you off the Cymbalta and just having you on the Lamictal or perhaps adding the Emsam. You know, at a later date. That’s one option I think. The other option is leaving the Lamictal at a hundred and raising the Cymbalta to ninety. The other option would be leaving things as they are, the hundred and the sixty on the Cymbalta, and maybe adding some Provigil in there.
 Provigil is a drug that promotes day time wakefulness. It is a drug that is uh, approved for people with certain kinds of sleep disorders and it without the, without the uh, the potential side effects of putting you on a, stimulant like Ritalin or Adderall can achieve the same effects. Um, its been very effective, it’s expensive you’re pharmacy, you’re, you’re insurance company probably won’t cover it unless you’ve had a documented sleep disorder, um, by way of a sleep study that says that you know you have this problem. Some of the insurance companies are pretty stingy about, I have samples I can give you, maybe forever, certainly for a long time, it works right away. So it acts to wake you up and stimulate you. 
 Yeah-
 Yeah, well you know, you know that, that I can, the, another option is leave things as they are, and, and, hope that whatever you’re going through is going change in a, in a few weeks or maybe give you some sleep medicine and hope that and leave things the way they are so that if you get more sleep that you’ll do better. So, we have you know, what I think are a good four or five different reasonable, plausible options that you know, that I could justify, of course I don’t predict the future, I don’t know which is the best choice to make and I also, you know, we’re trying to move things in a better direction, not go backwards and so, you know, any time you make changes, you can go the other way too and I’m hesitant because you know, you’ve done so well for so long. So, I can, I can justify you know, any one of these choices as being reasonable choices to make for you okay? I don’t know if you would benefit from a higher dosage of Lamictal, or if you would benefit from, from adding Provigil here. The, of course, there are pros and cons to every one of these. You know? A higher dosage of Lamictal perhaps you’ll have some side effects that you don’t have. Adding Provigil means uh, another, another medicine you have to take, uh, and potentially having side effects from that.
 Not specifically, although people have used it, as an antidepressant in some ways and people have used it as a augmentation with other antidepressants, it does kinda spark you up and promote a feeling of well being for, for some people, I’ve not had anybody have problems with it, it’s, I mean even, even very elderly people who are just not moving and you know, they benefit from it, but I’d, in fact, most of the time when I use that drug, I, almost, I almost think twice about not giving it to somebody because I’m almost positive it will help them and I’m also almost positive that their insurance company won’t cover it and it’s expensive. And I hate to have somebody do so much better and then say, well that great, but you know I can’t afford it. 
 And when I say it’s expensive, I’m not talking about thousands of dollars, I’m talking about a couple hundred bucks. 
 Mm-hmm. But you, but you, I can give you samples and we can you know, they play all these games with the insurance companies, and it depends on who your insurance company is for the med- prescription coverage. You know, some are pretty good and some are pretty bad about it, and so it’s been a sticking point. They’re getting easier with it as, as a rule, but still tough.
 So, um, the other thing is if we had to, if we had to let’s say we, we put you and it worked great, your insurance company would pay for you to have a sleep study done and if you’ve had a few problems, I’d send you over to [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER], you do the sleep study, and then this way, you know, you’re covered because you had the sleep study done and hopefully it would be supportive of…
 Of having that diagnosis that, you know, the insurance company would see as a bona fide uh, reason to cover the medication for you. So, um, you can see that there are potential ups and downs of any of these changes we make. Some are, some are going to be more risky than others, if you don’t mind taking a third medication on top of this, it may just be a temporary thing also. 
 Uh, the beauty of the Provigil is it works pretty much right away. And you’d know within a day-
 Whether were moving in the right direction or not. So, we can do that, I, it’s not going to interfere with anything you’re taking right now. And I don’t think its going to cause any problems for you, the only question is, is it going to help you? We could do that for a week and see if that works and then maybe consider going up on the Lamictal or the Cymbalta. You know, it’s a matter of how much you are willing to tolerate here and you know, some people you know, absolutely not want to take another medication. Other people would say you know, I feel more comfortable you know, raising this dosage of what I’m on now. 
 Again these are all reasonable choices. I only wish I had the power to know which one ahead of time is going to be the best one for you, to save time. And get you feeling better. What do you think?
 Well, it, it does help somewhat as an antidepressant though.
 But it is help with the, it does promote a feeling of well being and stimulation. 
 Why, why don’t we, you want to try it for a couple weeks?
 And then if it doesn’t do it, we’ll either, well we’ll move from there. 
 You want to do that?
 All right, I’ll give you some samples and I’ll give you some prescriptions [INAUDIBLE]. Well I hate to do that because if we’re going to make a change. Well, we’ll see, I, you do the mail order right?
 See, I hate to, hate to give you a mail order for three months of medication and then-
 Why don’t I do this, why don’t I give you some samples of, of everything for a few weeks. This way, in two weeks time, we’ll know what’s going to happen-
 And then we can always you know?
 Do it that way. That looks better. All right, let me get you some samples.
 You're administering them for her.
 Right, for accounting purposes.
 I'm sure it was an incredibly stressful day, and it was an incredibly physically taxing day.
 Well, you certainly aren't going to be doing any worse than you were downstairs, right?
[10:04.0]
 I'm not saying you shouldn't, but I'm wondering how come you do keep holding tight to these things like E&G; and the (inaudible at 11:45.6).
 I see. You feel like even if it isn't what it was and isn't much, it's what you've got and it's all you've got.
 That was a while ago.
 You needed money last week.
 Is it a condo?
 Yeah, I was wondering.
 In Andover?
[16:41.2]
 So what is it that you — you've got a bunch of files and other stuff around the old office that you need to box up and bring it upstairs?
 So your day today is packing boxes and moving them.
 Well, you can only do what you can do, right? You can go and pack some boxes and move them upstairs, send a few e-mails, and that's all you get done today, you know? I know you feel avalanched with other stress and money you don't have, but if that's all you can do —
 Then don't.
 You think that this is too badly broken to fix?
 I'm sure that's a question you're asking every day.
 Sorry, what is that?
 It's hard to get yourself to do it.
 And you really don't have the resources for any of them.
 It doesn't look like a rat's nest, Cameron. It doesn't look like a rat's nest. That one I can reassure you of.
 You know, you need something that's kind of like AA but isn't. Not like AA because I don't think you're an alcoholic, but something that helps keep you focused on what's in front of you and helps you know you're doing what you need to do. Doing the best you can and not in control of the outcome, and not in control of everything that is getting thrown at you. But able to kind of do the things that are within your power to do, and that provides a sense of not being so alone in what you're struggling with which is totally overwhelming.
[32:58.8]
 Yeah, the only thing I can think of that's like that is Debtors Anonymous which, I mean, your problem isn't the sort of spending that people usually go to Debtors Anonymous for. I mean, it's got that same kind of structure and that same kind of group support and 12 steps and the whole thing. But that's more for people who are living in ways they can't afford to live but have alternatives. Your real problem is that you're not spending wisely, you don't have money to spend on stuff.
[34:17.9]
 Is that what did it?
 Right, but that's the thing if you have four decent referral sources and you're getting five or six closings a month. It's a totally different ballgame.
[35:06.2]
 Yeah, you need something like that that's more like for, I don't know, depression, overwhelming stress, something like that. I'm not saying it because I have a particular group in mind. I'm saying it because it seems like something like that would provide some of the tools that I think would help, you know?
 Well, I think, you know —
 Right, but absent that, I think you often get, and understandably so, too overwhelmed by everything that's going on to be focused on things you can do. I'm not blaming you, this is what happens. I know you do a lot and you do a lot of what is possible to do, but you're also often telling me things that you can't get to because you're just too stressed and too overwhelmed.
[36:24.3]
Again, like I'm not wagging a finger at you, I'm just — this is how it is. And you're also, as you just said, really alone with all of this. You don't see anybody around who is going through the same thing in the same way, who is struggling every day with all this shit, and having to persevere with it. So these are some of the things I had in mind that a group like that can be helpful for, sort of keeping you focused on okay, you know, what can you affect, what can't you affect.
[37:16.5]
 I know you've mentioned that a few different times to me where whether it was people you've met, I think from various banks, for coffee —
 Right. If you had some business to throw around to these people it would come back to you. But you're having to bootstrap this way. (pause)
[38:40.7]
I guess that's the other thing that I think reminds me of AA with all this, is that there are people in it who are capable and talented and who have lived lives and are successful in various ways. But they have really hit trouble and really hit bottom and are trying to pull their lives back together. I think it would be helpful for you to be around other people like that and to see other people struggling, sometimes succeeding and sometimes not in doing that. I take your point, well that's a different group of people. Those are folks who just probably haven't been and don't expect to be — and they're not trying to pull things together in the same way.
[39:44.9]
They don't see — they're not trying to pull things back together in the way that you are. So it's a different story. (pause) Do you see what I'm saying? There's not a recommendation at the end of this. I want to think some more about it. Maybe there's a way that I can translate some of this into one.
 So you're saying if somebody gave you whatever it would cost, 100 bucks, to put the flyers up, or 200 bucks, that's something you would be able to do?
 I'm going to be clear. I know that the money is the number one problem. It's not that I fail to see that or I'm not clear about that. It's just not the thing that I am going to probably have any useful advice about. I mean, the anxiety and the sense of being overwhelmed I guess is a way, the stress level — I think that's the important part of this. I'm not saying I think it's as important as the money, but that's the part that I can think about. I wish I did have ideas for the other stuff.
[44:59.1]
 Always something a bit ironic about getting a lecture about being authoritarian.
 It sounds like a prescription for chaos, whatever this 15 or 20 six-year-olds and a whole bunch of soccer balls and a big wide open field.
 We're going to stop for now.
 The normal schedule works for me. Oh yeah, we do actually. I was confused.
 Good luck with the move.
 When is that feeling popping up that you've noticed?
 While you were still at work or were you home?
 Both days? And how long did it last?
 When you say, "Really depressed," what do you mean?
 Is that part of why you were feeling upset, you think?
 And not wanting to go?
 Overwhelmed you said. What was overwhelming? What did you feel overwhelmed by?
 So you're really upset with her?
 So it doesn't seem like it's for no good reason.
 There is a lot that's kind of going on under the surface all of the time for you right now. Some of the things just in five minutes that you've rattled off: You feel pressure and guilt about not applying for jobs; you feel angry at your mom for bringing it up; you felt frustrated with Sydney up until he got his new glasses; you, it sounded like, feel some resentment for music rehearsals; it sounded like your hand is still hurting off and on. That's five good reasons that I remember. You may have said other things that I've forgotten because I can only hold so much in my head at one time, but those are five big things that carry a lot of emotional weight for you that you have been carrying for quite a while. It makes sense to me that you would feel like you want some sort of escape from it, whether that's curling up in a ball and crying, which is a way of releasing and escaping or contemplating—sometimes those thoughts of killing yourself kind of float through your head because it feels like an escape. That's a lot to carry. 0:05:37
 It could be you're afraid to apply because you don't trust that it's going to get better. So it becomes both a good reason to avoid applying for jobs and something that scares you at the same time.
 Sometimes you don't know what it is you want to hear until you don't hear it.
 Because it would have felt like something you could do. It would have felt like something in your control you could go and do; have the appointments and have a specific set of things to do to make it better. 0:07:21
 What doesn't mean anything to you?
 That particular holiday?
 Where do you think the guilt comes from? 0:10:05
 Judged by?
 Particular other religious people or nameless faces? 0:10:23
 So you've made your decision not to fast.
 I'm just trying to get a sense of where you are.
 It sounds like what it is really about, for you, finding the meaning of the holiday and whether or not it makes sense in your head to connect that to fasting. You're saying this holiday doesn't hold meaning for you.
 What's the connection between fasting and remembering the event?
 So the way you talk about it doesn't sound like it makes sense for you. The actual fast doesn't hold meaning because it doesn't feel connected, except for ... 0:15:00
 And felt okay or felt guilty?
 So what makes this one different? Why the guilt about this one?
 I'm trying to understand if it's that that doesn't hold meaning—because you said, "We pick this random day," even if it's not really the day that these things happened.
 Would you feel different about finding a different way to commemorate those events? Is there a way that it would have meaning for you?
 You know what makes sense is that as you said it, it brought tears to your eyes so, clearly, it doesn't matter whether it makes sense to me. The questions I ask, I ask so that you can figure out what makes sense for you. It's not about whether it makes sense to me; but the fact that as you said that it brought you to tears shows me that that resoThomass for you and that's what's true for you. You're afraid and feel like you're miserable enough right now and dealing with enough; and you don't feel like you're able to take on extra suffering right now. 0:17:51
 They're expanding it to not put on lotions and perfumes.
 Lots of traditions are on suffering, empathizing with suffering.
 And you are suffering. So maybe you don't need these ways.
 And not extravagances.
 You have a lot of those restrictions in Shabbat.
 It's a really bad timing issue.
 And it sounds like you have felt disconnected from this holiday for a while.
 How do you feel about defining for yourself how you want to celebrate and what holidays have meaning to you?
 Do you want to consider yourself religious?
 I wonder if you're thinking about how you define yourself may be something that's changing in your life right now. We talked when you were reconsidering the kosher laws that you were going to continue to follow. That was a big piece for you, figuring out why are you doing what you're doing? What makes sense for you now? Is it different than what made sense in another part of your life? And there have been times in your life when you have observed differently. Maybe you're reaching a phase of your life where you need to renegotiate again for yourself what makes sense. 0:25:33
 So what's prompted that? What has stopped you from being more active?
 That's a very judgmental word.
 Do you miss it?
 You used to [...] (inaudible at 0:27:46) . That's something I used to hear you talk about almost every week.
 You just avoid the whole thing. 0:28:53
 It's fine as long as you feel okay about it. I think figuring out what feels right for you, there is no authority saying you have to be observant or you have to be this or you have to be that. You get to make a decision about what is right for you and then live out what you feel is appropriate to match what you've chosen for yourself.
 Do you want to be more connected?
 Is that because you're feeling depressed or is that because you're not feeling Jewish?
 So I'm wondering, withdrawing from things—that can be a sign of depression. Not feeling like you have any energy or motivation to do things can be a sign of depression. So is this not wanting to go and do? And is this withdrawing a piece of depression or is it a piece of a changing identity? If it's changing identity, you want to match up how you're identifying yourself with what you're expecting yourself to do. If these are symptoms that we should be working against because this is depression talking and not changing how you see yourself or how you want to practice, we need to treat the depression.
 I think you sort of started talking about one thing just with this holiday coming up and expanded it to something else. I'm certainly not pressuring you to observe a holiday that doesn't make sense for you. It sounds like you've pretty much decided not to observe the holiday, and there is no sense feeling guilty about it because that doesn't do anything. It doesn't make you more observant, it just makes you feel badly about what you've chosen, so I think making a choice for this particular holiday that feels right for you—it sounds like you already made that choice. Figuring out whether this general withdrawal is about Judaism or your Jewish identity or depression, that's a separate question. I don't think celebrating Tisha B'Av or not factors into that. 0:31:59
 So you haven't completely withdrawn from everything, but you haven't been applying to stuff. And that was something that was never an enjoyable thing, but it was something that you were able to motivate yourself to do and you haven't been able to for over a month now, I think.
 Rehearsal is not fun for you?
 This is the most energetic I've heard you all session. You're pretty fired up about this.
 So lots of stuff.
 What are you feeling right now as you talk about that?
 So—annoyed.
 So annoyed, resentful. 0:37:18
 Yeah, it's hard to do things for something that you're mad at.
 But you're mad at music. It's being passive-aggressive with its rehearsals so you don't want to do its website.
 So I'm hearing lots of symptoms of depression, which doesn't mean that you're in a full-blown depressive episode, but I don't think all these different feelings that are going on for you and reactions to things are separate from one another. It's like there are pieces here. They are not consistent enough to clinically say this is a depressive episode because these feelings have been around for a long time but you do have breaks from them. And, like you said, you're motivating yourself to do some stuff. There will be days when you, before your hand hurt, that you dyed a lot of wool or that you sent off a package or that you completed an order. You've gone to work. You're also carrying around a lot of resentment. You're having a hard time motivating yourself to do other things. Not feeling like exercising. There are pieces here that are depression. The other piece that's going on is the pain in your hand, and a lot of times pain and depression are linked. It tends to kind of work in both directions. People who have pain oftentimes develop depression. People who are depressed oftentimes develop pain. It's not completely understandable why that's so, but it does tend to group together. So the fact that you're also having this pain in your hand and you're having depression symptoms, I think this is all sort of clustered together and it's not that we're going to change all of these situations. I think we need to kind of think about increasing your resources to deal with this stuff, paying maybe more attention to what we can do to combat some of those depression symptoms. 0:41:05
 It's not just meds though, right? That's not the only thing you do to make yourself be healthy.
 How much fresh air and sunlight are you getting?
 And how has your sleep been?
 These are some things that have helped in the past to sort of bolster you a little bit. Being conscientious about them again because these are things you do have some control over. I'm not going to increase your meds. Your meds are in a place where they were doing their job for you, it's these other things that have changed. I think working hard to make it possible to let some of these other things work for you. There was a while when you were doing vitamin E or vitamin D ...
 Still doing that? Okay. I knew it was something. (chuckles)
 It doesn't have to be all at once. I'm going to take some of the pressure off of you. You don't need to go on some super long walk.
 What if you don't have your purse with you?
 If you can walk with just your key and your cell phone for ten minutes at a time, just do that. It doesn't have to be going to a place. It doesn't have to be going far away. You can do a ten-minute loop back to your house. That way you can go without carrying something heavy, which is better for your body. You're perfectly safe.
 So try ten minutes and see what it does for you. Some of the things that have helped in the past are getting work, sunlight, which is easy in the summer when there's lots of sunlight available. You don't have to be outside walking, but if you can go outside and get yourself fresh air and some sunlight, maybe take a five-minute walk. Do a quick loop and then just allow yourself to sit outside, soak up some of that sunshine, and then go back about your day. But I think breaking up the routine a little bit and giving yourself some of other stuff, those are things that are in your control that have helped you in the past. It's likely that they could help you again. 0:45:35
 These things may all be related.
 Gaining weight does put extra pressure on your joints and your body, but it doesn't mean that you can't use your body. One of the analogies the doctor gave you for your hand is that bodies like to be used and moved. You don't want to put too much pressure too soon. I'm not telling you to go out and walk for miles and miles, but little bits are in your control and will probably make you feel better not worse. It sounds like you've been doing pretty good this week trying to get back to that and having a routine has really helped you in the past. Those are all things that you have control over where you don't have control over some of these other things.
 Yes you can. You don't have to be dependent on him for that, especially where the goal is not to go for a long time. You can leave him for five or ten minutes a couple of times a day. Maybe if you do a five-minute walk, a five-minute walk, a five-minute walk, that gives you more movement and it gives you more outside time maybe than what you've been getting. He can do it with you—great. If not, that's okay too. You're allowed to do this yourself. We do have to stop for today.
 Client Number 0735-103, 1970 Session Number 11.
 Yeah.
 Because you haven't been hearing from me enough or because there's stuff you want to know or?
 Should I speak a little louder?
 Oh, I can hear fine.
 What do I think of the idea?
 You say if (ph) wanting to get another perspective on that?
 All right. What would I think about it?
 Oh, you mean like, is there something abnormal in it? You just have an uncomfortable feeling that there might be or something?
 When you say it's not normal thinking, do you mean like, I don't know, like someone hearing you might say, "Boy, that guy's pretty sick." Or something along those lines?
 Wondering if you're normal or?
 Like maybe somebody would be approaching it very constructively and stuff and, but for you, it's just been so hard to deal with and like there's been such a weight on you, it would be good to get the weight off?
 Sounds like that part of it would be satisfaction.
 Yeah. Telling him that too late.
 Too late to be talking about raises for next year [inaudible at 0:08:18.8]... and (ph) since last year was his last chance. [blank audio from 0:08:23.8 to 0:09:04.3] Well, I guess that part...letting him in on where you really stood, like that was, you're glad of that, but the effect of the whole mess was that... 
 Yeah, I know.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Nice that she wants to go with you but you can't trust her if you leave her alone?
 Yeah. Just her saying that she didn't really want him to come over is not enough evidence? [blank audio from 0:12:29.8 to 0:12:50.0]
 Yeah, it's nice.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. And I guess like those things were encouraging partly because like, they were things. They weren't just words, they were actions. I mean, an action really comes home with you in a way that a stream of words doesn't?
 Yeah, just thought of it. I don't know, I imagine you wouldn't mind getting her curiosity up [overlapping voices at 0:14:35.1]... 
 ...and making her a little nervous?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Put her through some of the same stuff, partly just out of tit for tat I guess and partly so that she would know what you were talking about?
 Like when you, something like that seems like a nutty thing?
 Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Maybe we should talk about that a little more, about the normal thing and whether you're nuts, because we started to and then it fell off in the shuffle.
 That's your point of view? And it doesn't square with your ideal of what a normal person would do, what most people would do or maybe will do? I mean, what would be the sensible thing to do?
 Like she owes you something? Maybe that's not quite the correct way to put it.
 Yeah, well.
 When you say 'it's supposed to', I'm not quite sure what you mean by 'it's supposed to', like that's what your parents would have said or that's what sensible people would do or that's the good way to relate to people? [0:18:25.5]
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they use this stuff really like, judge not less you be judged and stuff like that?
 But now it's different? [blank audio from 0:19:11.6 to 0:19:28.3] And I guess what you're telling me is that, you still think this, is the way you should behave, even though lots of your values have changed, that you're not acting like that? Is that right or maybe you're not, maybe it's not like that you think you should behave like that?
 Yeah, yeah. Because really, a matter of trying to decide which one you do believe?
 Yeah. Yeah, and there's another part of what you're saying too. Like a part of this, is like, what should you believe? And I guess the other part of it is like, you have some question like, am I nuts or something?
 No longer feeling like they have to like you? It's like if, and if they don't that's just tough? [blank audio from 0:23:03.3 to 0:23:49.9] Change? (ph)
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. That, you've come up with a lot of really different ideas from the way you were brought and they're good solid with you, but you're also aware that they're different from other people. Maybe they're, probably different from most people. [blank audio from 0:25:21.4 to 0:25:58.4]
 Yeah, so you know one way or the other. [blank audio from 0:26:25.4 to 0:27:01.9]
 Oh, that's right I didn't. I avoided that one. The reason why I avoided it was because nuts or not nuts or normal and abnormal don't seem like very useful categories to me and like I don't think in those categories.
 It will define parameters? Oh, ill define?
 Oh. But that isn't to say that I don't want to talk about your wondering about yourself or something, because like that seems like an important feeling to me.
 It's a nagging worry.
 Yeah.
 And I guess in a lot of ways it would be a tremendous relief just to have it all over with?
 It doesn't seem like a sensible thing to do to you?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah. Like looking ahead and like there's something that you will solve if you work, but you'll never have any real peace. It will always be, some of the problems will still be there nagging at you and they'll never let you alone.
 Yeah, like it would just be so nice to have a real rest, to be able just to relax and not have stuff to worry about for a while, to be peaceful? [blank audio from 0:30:15.3 to 0:30:52.3]
 Yeah, like even if you went away, like you'd take your problems along with you?
 Yeah. So you're caught in the whole situation and can't get out even for a week?
 Yeah. Yeah, because those things stand and the best you can do is concentrate on your work and try not to think about it because they're still there.
 Yeah.
 It doesn't keep you from worrying?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So the one you're in now is already messed up beyond any repair? 
 Yeah, it feels like your hands are partly tied because you haven't got the authority or the money to do all that's necessary.
 I don't think my cactus will like you.
 Yeah? I've never... And I guess there's something terribly frustrating about trying to operate while you're hamstrung?
 Yeah, yeah.
 In a sense doing to her what your boss is doing to you?
 It sounds like you just have bad luck or?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, you care about her and appreciate how hard she is working now (ph).
 It feels terrible to have her give you something you're not giving her? [blank audio from 0:38:39.0 to 0:39:02.5]
 Well, yeah. Yeah, I know like it, like you get contradictory feelings toward her, right? [blank audio from 0:39:47.4 to 0:39:58.1] (phone ringing) - Hello? Yeah. Can I call you back at 3:30 Matt? Yeah, or can you call me? 2:25. Sure. Okay. Okay, good. - [blank audio from 0:40:24.6 to 0:40:55.4]
 Yeah.
 Oh, to you that is a sign of concern to you? And it sounds like you appreciate the signs of love and concern like that and at the same... 
 Huh?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, she's good.
 At the same time it made you a little sad?
 Yeah, right.
 But you don't know it... 
 Yeah. And you don't, just because she says something doesn't make it so, as far as you're concerned?
 Because you want her to spend some time wondering about you?
 It's almost like, kind of respect?
 Yeah. It looked like that struck a cord with you?
 Yeah, it is. I don't know, it doesn't seem so weird to me, because if what I got out of it was that, sometimes you feel like she takes you for granted.
 I see, you say... 
 Yeah, yeah, okay. And you're saying, well, it is weird in a way. I mean, look most people wouldn't do that.
 Yeah. But to you I guess suspicion means?
 Yeah, I guess... 
 I guess virility is an important issue for you?
 Yeah. Yeah, feel you're up to all other men? [blank audio from 0:47:49.1 to 0:48:19.0] And I guess virility is being competent and effective but especially like, sexually effective? [blank audio from 0:48:28.9 to 0:48:54.4] It's like if your wife's suspicious of you, well, that means she thinks you're a sexy guy.
 And I guess you're implying there that, at least to someone who is... 
 Yeah, yeah. Because if you see it, she doesn't see you as sexy a girl will come?
 Yeah. To you it seems like she is patronizing or looks down on you?
 Yeah. Yeah. I mean...put it the way you feel, like it feels you're not in the picture, like she's going to get rolling too?
 Yeah. Along the lines of her having affairs, you've had all the stuff you can take?
 Yeah, and I won't have that again?
 Didn't have enough effect on her?
 So, she's going to thrust back at you and instead of... 
 I guess we should be quitting for the day.
 Do you want to try and get another time in this week?
 Sure. Would it be possible Friday at 5:30?
 Oh, good. Okay. 
 That is all right.
 Is that what was hard about going back to your parents?
 [inaudible 2:43] I am having trouble getting a sense of [inaudible 2:48]
 Kind of...you said it was irritating?
 So it was kind of like the feeling was a little like they were just after you or they were getting to you or something like that?
 So it is like kind of being in [inaudible 7:25] environment with no one to protect you.
 It sounds like you needed someone to protect you period. It sounds like it really did not make much difference that it was Charlie, but you needed somebody.
 Guilty for going without him [inaudible 9:52]?
 And you were saying that you did not want to leave him [inaudible 10:07] feel that way or something but you had to do it because you had to show him that you could do something by yourself.
 So kind of to get back at him or...
 So he really felt that it was a thing that went back?
 You should. You do not want to play therapist with someone that you are living with.
 So you were saying it is really hard for you to do when you have got all your stuff going [inaudible 15:39] and you cannot put yourself aside and help him because [inaudible 15:43]
 That he is not chasing you around the bedroom?
 What is your fantasy [inaudible 18:07]
 But it seems to me [inaudible 18:29] there must be something really wrong. 
 You mean something like more foreplay?
 [inaudible 22:26]
 But it sounds like now you are wondering now why he is not.
 Or why on Earth should he be staying with you, what is he getting out of it?
 Yes. That is what you said before about him being afraid of...
 While you are saying that, what I have heard you saying before is that both of you are really terrified of leaving because that would mean you would have to go out on your own. And that is part of what keeps you so desperately needing each other. 
 But he so much does not do that and you wonder.
 [inaudible 29:00]
 But it is not like a marriage.
 [inaudible 29:22]
 Something more than that, but it's not really a marriage.
 I think what you have been saying [inaudible 30:03]
 Yes, you would like to be happy, I mean, you would like that to be true but it's almost like all of your depression that you have been [inaudible 30:30]
 Not just that too, but I was thinking before when you were talking about sex with each other, and the fact that you don't have any foreplay. I mean, that's a really important part of making love and one of the things that makes it enjoyable for people is that kind of sharing each other's bodies. And I am sure that is not helping.
 Yes.
 After [inaudible 32:42]
 You were not getting what you wanted.
 [inaudible 33:47] he was gentle with you, or he didn't initiate at all?
 Not a wife.
 And that's just some of what you were just saying that all along somehow you felt there was something wrong with the way he was with you. [inaudible 36:02]
 And you really want him to face it.
 That he felt that way. 
 The main thing now is you're just sitting trying to figure him out.
 You just don't know what is going on. There are a lot of hints, but it's like you can never be direct with him [inaudible 40:18] it's still the same thing and you cannot find out how he feels. You keep trying, and trying, and trying and you [inaudible 40:25]
 So now it's like you were saying before, [inaudible 41:46] he has that desperate need for you and he doesn't really go out on his own when you leave. 
 So [inaudible 43:11] it seems like you have tried a lot of things [inaudible 43:13]
 By staying with him?
 So, somehow, life outside seems like dangerous or [inaudible 44:46] or...
 By yourself?
 You really want to keep this one.
 And [inaudible 12:08] because this one is good in some ways and partly because the other one is so scary. 
 Well, I think it is important. I think whatever you need for you is important. That's the biggest thing. And it sounds to me like you just get driven to these things because everything you need just somehow gets shoved in a corner and then you explode [inaudible 46:54] that is, and then have ups and downs [inaudible 46:56] So I see you in the process of thinking out what it is you are getting out of this. [Inaudible 47:10]
 And also because the other substitute [inaudible 47:40] to navigate.
 [inaudible 48:21]
 Any kind of change then?
 Sounds like all this change is just going to shove him in a corner. You have to work on this. 
 You cannot end it until you at least understand it. 
 But what do you think is wrong with him when he is making love with you?
 Yes.
 Do you want to? 
 You don't have any good feelings about it they are all bad.
 [inaudible 53:43] time you did respond to it and something happened. [Inaudible 53:53] that you have said about this and I'm thinking of a couple things and one is when you said that you really thought men's bodies were ugly. And that repulsed you. [Inaudible 54:08] you said that when you first got married [inaudible 54:10] to you [inaudible 54:13] and then that changed. 
 Something you should do?
 Because it was time [inaudible 55:28] Not so much because it was something that you wanted but it was what society says [inaudible 55:36]
 And it was not sexual because that's just wasn't something that you had experienced.
 Did it feel to you like it was wrong or did this feel right?
 So it's just like you have never had any sexual feelings with anyone. [Inaudible 58:30] and that's kind of embarrassing to say.
 That is one way to get [inaudible 59:47]
 Sorry for poking at you with so many questions but I have another one.
 Have you ever felt like someone did that which turned you on? I mean, like, I'm just talking physically [inaudible 62:02] have they done things which were good for you, which were pleasant for you? Or was it more like the 1, 2, 3 that thing you were talking about [inaudible 62:14]
 That turned you off?
 Yes, that was all good for you.
 Were you able to come in all of that?
 But that was just from the foreplay and not the actual intercourse.
 It was okay with you as along as you got what you wanted first.
 And what you're saying is happening now with Charlie is you like the...
 All right, let's turn this fan off too real quick.  All right, so you met with [NAME OTHER] earlier today?
 And, um, did you tell her you're not feeling well, right?  You were feeling depressed?
 Um-hum, um-hum.
 Okay well that's not good.  Um, how are we doing with the drinking and smoking you know?
 Excellent, well good for you, that's great.
 All right.
 All right well that's good that you're cutting down on that.  Uh, it would nice if we could get to no marijuana, you know, even though once or twice is pretty good.  Um, what else are you doing?  Are you using the, uh, Klonopin?
 Klonopin every night right?  Right, just a tiny little dose?
 And then are you taking Elavil at night?
 It was a medicine we gave to you for sleep?
 Did you ever fill that?
 Okay.
 Too much, yeah that makes sense.  Did you, um, did you take it though ever do you remember or not?
 No, okay.  Okay are you going to counseling at all?  Are you seeing, you know, [NAME OTHER] or [NAME OTHER] or anyone?
 Okay.  All right.  All right well we're making some progress in some areas and then in others I guess we're having some trouble.  This Cymbalta, um, you, you know, I don't recall you, um, complaining about sleeping all the time on the lower dose right?  I don't remember that being an issue.  You definitely are very sensitive to a lot of these medications and we might find that, um, a lower dose and then, and also shifting the dose to, to nighttime instead of in the morning might be a better way for you to take this.  Uh, what do you think about that?
 It's pretty high that's an anxiety.  Do you feel like you're more anxious or depressed?
 Both.  What are you worrying about?
 Hum.
 There's a lot of stuff going on.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Um -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 How old is he now?
 Um-hum.
 So you are falling asleep at night and then you're just sleeping a lot during the day also?
 Um-hum.
 Right, right.
 That's excellent.
 Um-hum, um-hum.
 Well, um, it's, I think, uh, very good thing to hear that you've shifted around your sleep, wake cycle to some extent.  That you're not staying up until 3:00, 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning.  Um, and I would continue to encourage more of that.  Um, in regards to your energy, I mean, I, I don't want to harp on the smoking of marijuana but, but obviously that's not helping I don't believe.  Uh, but also anxiety, you know, with your anxiety being so high you burn up a tremendous amount of energy, um, with, with your high anxiety, okay, I mean it's wasted energy and it's, um, you know, it's, and there's restless energy that goes along that, so it's not only becomes mental but physical right?  Would any of the medicines that you've been on in the past to address your mood or anxiety, I mean, is there anything that stands out that worked better than, than the next?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah I think the dosing of it caused what we would call akathisia or some kind of inner sense of restlessness.  Um, but that generally is a dose related and time limited side effect for a lot of people.  So -
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yep.  All right, um, there are like 6 other medicines in its class, um, but you've been on a couple of them.  Invega and Zyprexa are 2.
 Yeah that was a bad one.
 And the other things you took Seroquel right?
 You never took Seroquel?
 Did you ever take it?
 Well then you never took, um, right to told me that before.  You've never taken, um, what about Wellbutrin?
 Wellbutrin?
 Wellbutrin people, um, tend to lose a few pounds or at least stay even on it.  Same thing with Prozac, ever take Prozac?
 Hum.  So these are a couple options that are out there for you, you know, they're not habit forming, they don't cause weight gain, they're usually a little bit more activating than some of the other treatments that are there.  So we could do, ah, a simple swap with the, ah, Cym, Cymbalta and look at what happens with some Prozac.  Prozac is fluoxetine, it's a good medicine, it's been around for a long time since the 80s.
 Probably.  Has anybody ever died because of it?  Using it in therapeutic doses, I doubt it.  It's been around since the 80s.
 I would take it in the morning.
 Yeah I think you'll really like it.  I think you'll really do well on it.  It's, it's really what they call a gold standard treatment so it's a, you know, a lot of these newer medicines that come out have to be tried against it to say hey, we can do what Prozac can do.  Have you heard of it before?
 Yeah, so but at least it's worth, I mean there's not an endless amount of options.
 It's a serotonin reuptake inhibitor so it works on serotonin, um, whereas the drug you're, which is a chemical messenger that is thought, uh, with depression and anxiety to be out of balance.  So essentially it will reset that imbalance, the chemical imbalance.  So it increases your serotonin.  Okay?
 And what you're doing now you're on a medicine that that has serotonin but also neuro epinephrine and sometimes that neuro epinephrine while some people find it activating I think you're finding it makes you tired, you know?
 But people, but it's, it's not in the class of medicine like, um, the Zyprexa, you know, when you gain weight.  That's a different -
 Yeah.
 Good.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, that makes sense.  I would really try your best to try and, and, and stick to this, ah, you know, sleep, wake cycle.
 Right.
 But you have been using lots of caffeine right?
 I think that's what you told me last time.  And, you know, your, your son I mean, children are difficult, um, and, and being a parent is never easy, you know.
 I mean you see these shows on TV do you ever watch like, you know, The Nanny or whatever.
 Right or, or, what is that?
 J, J-camp, you know, someone and Kate Plus 8, whatever, what's that?
 Yeah have you seen that right?
 You know, I mean these are real life situations of parenting and it's, it's a challenge so.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 I see what you're saying.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well I'm, I'm trying to, uh -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  You know, some of the -
 Yeah, I, I'm not saying there's an easy fix for this but I, I want to give you some, some strength to understand that, you know, it sounds like you're doing good things with your son and you're trying hard and you, you know, don't give up, okay?
 But you need to, um, what I found to be the most effective way of dealing with this, kids of all age really, and all relationships, you know, is to have some consistency.  So if you say to him, you know, if you do that, this is what's going to happen and you have to do it on their age level and what they understand but, understand that there are consequences and that you mean what you say.  Even if it makes more work for you.  In the short run it will make more work for you but in the long hopefully it will pay off.  An, an example, you know, if you keep this behavior up, you know, no TV for, for tonight.  So even though no TV might mean more work for you because he's not watching TV in the long run, you know, if that's an example, you know, or if you're in the restaurant and he's throwing stuff all over the place even though it will maybe cost you money and certainly be an unpleasant to get up and leave in the middle of the meal, if you do it once they're going to understand, hey, mom's not messing around so you say, hey, you know, straight in the eye, this is what you're doing, this is what I, you know, need you to do or not do and if you don't this is what's going to happen.  On the flip side you could say, if you do something good, you know, whatever you, you want the outcome to be, drink your milk over here, then you can do this, whatever that might be.  Read a book, go outside, play with your whatever.
 Yeah, but you've got to hold, hold to those things and don't give up and I agree there's a lot in your life that is out of your control, uh, and, and, and making parenting even more difficult.  But as you are well aware, you're not the only, you know, mom out there trying to manage without all the resources that might be available to other people, you know, so just you've got to stick with it okay?
 And do your best in trying to, um, to stay away from smoking.  I do appreciate your honesty with it too because, you know, we can't help you if we don't know what's going on.  So it, it factors into all of it and we'll see how, how it goes.  I think you'll feel better about yourself and also just in general, you know.  Okay?
 So we're going to make that a, a shift.  We're going to take you down off the Cymbalta and I'm going to give you a weeks worth of 30s, so we don't just pull it.
 Thirty for a week, stop it.  At the same time, Prozac okay?  You, you'll do fine on this.  And then, you know, get back in here in another -
 No, no.  At the same time you're doing the 30, you'll be on both for a week.  So it'll be a cross taper here okay?
 Correct.  Okay?  You going to able to do this?  Or, or are you not comfortable doing that?
 It's safe.  You'll be all right.  Okay?  All right, [PATIENT NAME].  I'll see you back here, you know, um, in a couple weeks.  Two to 4 weeks, okay?
 We'll see what happens with this.  All right?  Give you some examples next time in your parenting area.  Good or bad we'll see how it goes.
 Try it out okay?  Hopefully good, you're right.  Okay.  See you.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 All right.  Anyway, I, um, now you called [NAME OTHER] yesterday?
 Did you call her?
 Oh, you called Lanton Hospital?
 And what did they say?
 Yesterday?
 Yeah, I'm finding this like, uh, when was the last time I asked not to be paged.  It was like three weeks ago, two weeks ago.
 For, for six hours.  I don't know.
 It's really strange.  And anyway, it said they were supposed to call if, that there was a certain time that they were to call me on my cell phone because my page, I was out of range.  I don't know, whatever.
 Sorry about that, I'll call them today.
 All right.  Thanks.  Did you tell [NAME OTHER] this?
 Okay.  I'll call down today.  I've got nine billion phone calls.  All right, so, all right, anyway, so you, um, are not taking, I understand, Abilify?
 As of when?
 What do you mean?
 Now, is that stranger than you've been before?
 Um-hum.
 I mean, we're only on very -
 Hm?
 Yeah.  
 You were only on seven and a half for a couple of days, right?
 All right.  Um, so, okay.  So we need to think of something else that might be more helpful with mood swings that you're having, with the thoughts, some of the thoughts you get.  I mean, where are you with, um, uh, now wait a minute.  Let's see.  Um, all right.  Are we still, are you still, are you scheduled for, um, did you get tested?
 Oh, you just finished recently?
 Oh, okay.
 It was?
 Oh.
 Yeah, sometimes.  Last week, you said?
 All right.  Um, so, because I know we were gonna wait for those results, although this sounded pretty, pretty severe.
 Um-hum.
 No, no, you're not going on antidepressants.
 Yeah.  But this, I mean, um, um, I don't know.  We've done some unusual things, some of these mistakes.
 They did?
 She knows you spend all this money?
 Oh, God.
 Um-hum.
 No.  Have you looked at the bills?
 What did you buy?
 Um-hum.
 Oh, that's good.
 Oh.
 For shipping and handling?
 Oh, the stuff.
 Oh.  All right.  Thank you.  A hundred and forty dollars.  Gosh.
 When are you going to New York?
 You are? 
 So you were going with your friend.
 That's good, that's good.
 All right.  So, oh God, um, all right.  Now, before this, were you on, were you ever on meds before?  No.
 Yeah, that made you, like, whooo.
 But other than that?
 It was just that two weeks.
 Okay.  Um, oh, God, um, are you sleeping at night?
 Some.
 All right.  I would say, how long you gonna be in New York?
 Um, I don't know.  I mean, I think something, we should do something, but I don't necessarily want to start you on anything major when you're going away.
 But, I mean, but if I give you something new to start, like on Monday morning or something.
 Would you, I don't know.  Would you feel comfortable taking like a smaller dose of Abilify for a couple of days?  So I know you have something that, yknow, I guess I'm afraid that without that, yknow, it might be doing nothing, but, yknow, it might -
 No, I mean you have, one of these episodes you had before you were on it, but -
 Well, all right.  Um, all right.  Why don't we, um, I think I'll, I don't know.  Let's give you something to start on -
 Sure.  The samples, thank you.
 Until the [DATE], yeah, okay.  All right, let's do this.  Let's start you on, on Lamictal.
 Lamictal.
 Is it?
 Well, you have to go up really slowly.  The biggest problem is, the thing that, yknow, generally it doesn't affect your, it doesn't make you sleepy, it doesn't generally affect your appetite or, yknow.
 No, average is weight neutral.
 Yknow, some people could, from anything, get a headache or stomachache, but generally not.  But rash was the only thing you gotta watch for.
 Yeah.
 No, anywhere, I don't know.
 So, what you need to do is everyday, real quick, look at your face, chest, arms, legs, stomach, back, make sure there's no rash.  If it's a little bit of a rash, you can watch it.  If it's not getting any bigger, just keep watching it.  If it's spreading, yknow, getting bigger fast, then you probably need to stop taking the Lamictal and go to urgent care, tell somebody you're on Lamictal, just to see, they can look at it.  The biggest thing is if it's, and no one that I know, I've had thousands of people on this.  
 Five percent of the people get a rash.  Most of the time, you lower the dose and stop it and start it real slowly.
 Once in a while, now I haven't had anybody like this, but once in a while, you can get a serious rash where it's like flaky.  If it's flaky, then you need to see somebody immediately.
 No, but it, no, but it could become a serious rash or it could become a, it could potentially become something that might be deadly, but the reason we start so slowly is to kind of prevent that.
 Um, I will, here sign this, just read it and you can sign that.  I had a reaction that was, that was like starting towards that on Bactrim a long time ago.  Um, it was weird, but.  All right, you can just sign under here where it says - 
 But this thing, I'm gonna open it and show you, this you can start today if you want.  But this, yknow, because it's unlikely you're gonna have any problems and you should, yknow, this is week one, week two, take one a day, week three, two a day together.  Week four, week five.  Twenty five, so that would be fifty and a hundred.
 Now, no, they make a hundred, they make a two hundred, they make a one fifty and a two hundred.  Generally, one fifty to three hundred is where people end up.
 Um, all right, so, I'd like you to take that and next, next week, are you scheduled for next week?  Are you in the system regularly?
 All right.  So, unless things change and things are not good, in which case, call, um, I'll see you Wednesday.  
 So, we'll start this today.  They obviously make some other medication, but we'll see.  Let me know how you're sleeping, how you're doing.
 This is, this is to prevent most, actually, I need to ask you something real quick - how tall are you?  
 So what's that, sixty five and how much do you weigh?
 115?  Okay.  Um, I have to get, I have to put that, for some reason.  Um, anyway, um, no, so I wanted to, um, this helps rapid move swings and depression.  It doesn't necessarily help manic episodes.
 But it helps you from flipping into them, back and forth.  So, depending upon how you're doing, I might want to do something that will help with that.
 Okay?  All right.  So, and call if there's a problem.  Otherwise, I'll see you next week.
 Thanks.
 All right.
 So, oh yeah, that's new, yeah, I grew it and I haven't shaved it off yet.  I don't know if it'll last, but it's 1 of those things where it itches after a while.
 It's starts rubbing.  So how much rain did you guys get?
 Holy smokes, over period of time?
 Really.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 So you had water actually run through your yard there?
 Was it a river or was it just
 Wow.
 Wow.
 It started about what time?
 So it was dark then during all this too, so you couldn't really see much.
 Yeah.
 Huh.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Huh.
 Huh.
 Oh my God.
 Thank goodness.
 Uh-huh.
 Geez.
 Oh no.
 My goodness.  So what kind of damage did it do to your place?
 So internally it's okay, it's just underneath and.
 Oh.
 Oh good.
 Oh what, cataracts?
 When are you going to have that done?
 Are you going to do both eyes?
 Okay.
 Well, you'll probably see a lot better when you get it
 Wow, that's good.
 Phew, so you've got a lot going on.
 Now the road is still washed out, right?
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Oh.
 Yes.
 I just got stuck, huh.
 Yeah, oh man.
 Oh yeah, we've, well it depends, we've had some bad storms the last 2 to 3 days.  Before that, it was just parched.
 It was
 Oh.
 Well, that's good, that's good.
 So what have you been doing with yourself?
 Oh because of the damage?
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's good, that's the secret these days.
 Something like that you just can't
 Yeah, you can't do much about it once it starts though.
 Is a lot more powerful that us.  So are you sleeping okay most of the time?
 Yeah
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.  Is she back?
 Really?  Oh boy, my goodness, oh boy.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Wow, that's probably a good thing.  I mean that could be dangerous.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, so where did your propane tank go.
 Oh good, so it didn't go too far at least.
 Huh.  Wow.
 Huh.
 Yeah, well, it's one of those things you can't do anything about.
 So before the flood were your spirits doing okay?
 Yeah, they're winning.
 Did you watch the game last night?
 Quite a comeback huh?  It's exciting again.
 They could be in a lot better shape even considering.
 I mean they've lost a lot of close games.
 Yeah.
 Well, I'm hoping that'll be over now.
 Yeah, I think most people are.  
 No, no, but how many games back are they now, do you know?
 Okay.
 4 games.
 Oh.  They're on a roll now.
 They're winning, I mean
 Yeah, they do great up here so if they can just stay home for a while and win some games
 Exhibition games, maybe they can get over the hump.  So, good, yeah, their pitching is doing pretty well and they're hitting like crazy all of the sudden.  Yeah, so that's fun to watch, good.  Now, let's see, energy wise you doing okay?
 Yeah.
 Oh really.
 Huh.
 Okay.
 Okay.  Are you able to focus and concentrate reasonably well these days?
 Good.
 Let me check and see.  Let's see, we did the Paxil actually August of last year so that 1's probably going to expire.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I was going to say, both of them look like they're probably going to expire this month
 So I can write you out new prescriptions so
 No side effects or problems with the medicines?
 Oh, okay, who's the medical doctor?
 Oh.
 Where is he, Cleveland?
 Okay.  And the voices, no problem?
 It's been a long time.
 Years.
 Sure.  And no feelings of, I mean, worried or afraid about things, bad things are going to happen to you or anything like that?
 Okay, good.
 That makes anybody a little nervous I'd say, that's not good.  Okay.  Let's see, you said the medications are no problems, are you taking them pretty much every day?
 Good.  Now well the Paxil at least and the Klonopin, how often do you take that?
 Okay and it helps when you take it?
 Good.
 Oh good.
 Okay.  And how much are you taking of it?
 Oh, so not very often.
 Are they the 800 mg, do you know.
 Prescription?
 Okay, that's good if you don't need them all the time, that reduces the risk to your stomach and those kind of problems.
 Okay, good, besides the flood, any other stressful things happening right now?
 Oh.
 Oh, that's too bad.
 Okay.
 Okay, well, should we leave the meds the way they are you think?
 They're working pretty well?  Let me get you 2 new prescriptions, one for each, and you'll have them.
 No, as long as you're doing well.  It's been, it's been a year since you've been off the Mellaril?
 So you're doing fine off it?
 So good.
 Do you think the Rockies are going to get to the playoffs?
 They sure do.
 If they've got enough confidence in themselves to kind of get over that hump and try to get to that next level.
 Oh.
 Oh, okay, so that could be a crucial road trip.
 Oh, I don't doubt it, yeah, it kind of shakes up your sense of security in life.
 Yeah, I hope they fix it then because that's, you don't want that to happen again.  Have they, have you heard any talk about they're going to do in terms of making it better.
 Huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Have you had a lot of wildlife this year then, deer?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Well, that may be good.
 They caught a mountain lion up here, did you hear?  
 Right over here by the highway in [INAUDIBLE], he sat up in somebody's tree and he called the department of wildlife, they came and tranquilized and moved it, I don't know where to.
 Huh.  I guess [INAUDIBLE] usually.
 Yeah.  They say anywhere there are deer, there are mountain lion.
 Yeah, oh man.  Well, let's see, [PATIENT NAME], we just check back in 6 months again?
 You're doing fine so
 That'll put us into February of next year. 
 Oh, I got back, let's see, we went in late May, early June we took 1 vacation and I just went to a conference last week so, down in Mexico, yeah, I was amazed how green it was driving all the way down.
 Yeah, we drove down to [INAUDIBLE] and it's the greenest I've ever seen it down south.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, I've never seen it that green down there this time, it's usually yellow, yeah, it was pretty.  So, do you want to do something around this time?
 Like 11 o'clock again?
 Okay.  Let's see, let me go back and forth here, we can do a Wednesday.
 Okay, do you want to do the 13th of February?
 Getting tired of summer are you?
 Yeah, see if this winter is like the last one, that was an unusual 1 up here at least, it just kept snowing and snowing, it didn't melt.  I'll show you all these.  So I've got the Klonopin 1 mg, 1 as needed for sleep, there's 30 with 5refills, that'll be good for 6months and the Paxil, 3 a day, there's 90 with 11 refills so that'll be good for a year.
 All right.
 Okay.
 If you need anything in the meantime, just give a call.
 Good seeing you.
 Is that your keys?  They just fell on the sofa there.
 No.
 Okay, you bet, take it easy.
 Okay, bye bye.
 Client number 2326 - 104. Special Sessions 2a - alpha.  Session number 11....
 So what's happening?
 What's happening and did something special happen tonight or...?
 Well what's the panic concerning (ph) like you think part of it's the, "want to get out" or "want to get away from this sad thing" or...
 ... [or maybe you don't.] (ph)
 How are you getting hurt?
 I mean right now.
 Uh huh. Which makes you feel it's awkward? (ph)
 Then you really felt hurt. [3:04]
 What's it mean, her getting back in the car and going off with him?
 Yeah, that's what I want to know. What it meant to...
 It just hurts too much.
 Yeah like you feel like you're helpless to change it...and do anything about it.
 But then you put that together then with the feeling - like she really would prefer to go out with him then with you.
 How does it make you feel?
 Like you feel like you don't have a right to say, "You got to be with me...all the time." But God damn it - coming home and then going on off rather than coming in...it just feels like too much. It just seems so clear to you like she doesn't like you as well as she likes him...and that hurts. [5:33]
 I didn't understand the cold [part of that] (ph)
 But what - is that, does it mean that like another hour isn't going to make a difference?
 To her but it does to you.
 [Let's do it] (ph) again and again...just to hurt. Waiting for her to come home; sort of hoping it will be soon and then you hear her and then she comes -
 It sounds like you'd like to...
 What would that be like just to leave? [7:07]
 Yeah. But I mean - like you've got some ideas of what it might be like. You need to, right...
 Prayed to just have your own little spot and be alone in it? You're feeling so lonely.
 And that feeling would just get worse and worse. Yeah. Makes (ph) you pay attention to how miserable you are (inaudible). It seems like those are the options?
 Ha, ha, ha. Huh?
 It sounds like it doesn't it. Like, you'd like to be with her a lot. You like the times when you feel close. It's that kind of thing you'd be missing if you really...
 Seems too foreign...it feels like it'd hurt all the time between you, or...?
 [That's true.] (ph) (inaudible)
 Like thinking (ph) maybe you might someday feel that way but you sure don't feel like it now.
 And you are...hurting and all that.
 Sort of an ultimatum.
 And you're saying that feels good to you, or...? [11:23]
 Yeah I don't have a feel for what it would feel like to you or mean to you for you to her, "Look, I simply can't go on - right now anyways - the way I'm feeling and your feeling being so, different...either you..." you know...
 What would happen?
 Uh huh, sort of masculine. (ph)
 Uh huh. So supposing you hold her then -
 You're saying - like alright so supposing she says, "Don't go" and she holds you and she cries and feels good. She seems all warm and, "Please stay" and then the next night you're thinking it would be the same. Huh?
 "I have to get back home because he'll be upset and he'll leave." [13:05]
 [Not necessarily] (ph) to want to get home to see you. Which is I guess what you are saying you want. 
 So I guess you're wanting from her, her feeling like she really wants to be with you.
 And that would be the ultimatum out of it - getting home more. 
 Yeah, yeah well you can't be I guess - you're trying to be sure about how it would feel later on and you really can't be. But you can always...
 That's wrong (ph) of you?
 You feel too pushed and not enough room.
 Somebody's grabbing me. [15:27]
 You like it where you could both be kind of free. 
 Like somehow share the kind of feeling that you'd have. So you didn't get the feeling like you were coming too close or too pushy or something like that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. If it were simple. But you don't feel it's simple. It's complicated huh?
 One part of the complication I guess you were saying is...you don't want to be alone...and what you've got sure beats that. 
 What's that? (inaudible)
 Does it make you feel bad?
 Why?
 What's it feel like when you think about it?
 And you're feeling like you're really on the edge or on the line? (ph)
 Yeah like your feeling very desperately wanting something from her. And yet when you hear yourself kind of issue the ultimatum you feel really crummy because there's no way she can respond.
 I mean you don't want her to come home right after the play...unless what?
 You want her to but you don't want her to do unless she wants to?
 She won't want too? Unless you force her too?
 That must really hurt.
 She's looking at it like it's too much?
 And you're feeling like it's not.
 Then you've got to live with that difference, huh?
 You think about (inaudible) leaving and it just feels wrong?
 What would you do in your little room?
 Cry...write...walk the neighborhood.
 You don't seem panicky. [22:17]
 Yeah, you don't sound - you say you feel panicky but...
 Is it more like you're scared you might be...
 Are you talking in general now or [about some people, something?] (ph)
 What can you do about it now...If you wanted to? [24:15]
 It's just the vague kind of, "Well I have to change something and [this, isn't] (ph) (inaudible)
 You've kind of been feeling (inaudible)
 Kind of like [showing you're confused] (ph) (inaudible)
 Uh huh. I do. (inaudible) [It's time to give up] (ph)
 You're feeling that way now?
 How do you feel?
 You look a little like... (inaudible)
 What kinds of things come to mind? 
 You say, "Only that" but yet that must have a lot of meaning and feeling [touched] (ph)
 Why do you worry about it?
 What kinds of things do you say, back and forth to yourself? 
 Do you just say, "Hey I'd like to come see you. I'm feeling really crummy."? [28:10]
 It feels like it would be all the time. [What do you think?] (ph)
 Why don't you put one of them behind you?
 If it's more comfortable (inaudible).
 Well you like - part of it's feeling like how I've got to find some way in which...
 It's the last few miserable...
 What would you like to do? [30:05]
 A lot of times
 Yeah but...
 (sneezes)
 You find it hard to believe or... (inaudible)
 But it's not really fun to do, or...
 Did you used to have fun as a kid, you know like when you'd get up for the (ph) day? (inaudible)
 How you'd like them to be.
 But a lot of it is worry about other people looking at you - how you want to be?
 How would you like to be? I mean aside from all that stuff about other people and what they're thinking? (ph) Do you know?
 Huh. Well I was just trying to...Well how would you like it to be with a woman? You know aside - pushing away from the issue.
 What's that?
 Kind of relaxed and easy. [35: 28]
 Let's take a day for example, just like what would it be like for you to get up, and where would you be and then what would you do.
 Are you talking, or...?
 But the way you talk about it, it's just you. I don't hear how you're with somebody else and...Because like you get up, you brush your teeth, you -
 You brushing your teeth together or showering together or...
 [Which's better?] (ph)
 What's the fun part of that?
 (inaudible) part?
 Fun?
 Like that you want more full (ph) and more (inaudible)
 Your feelings too. You might want [somebody different] (ph) (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 What types of things would you - let's see you've got to maybe you go off or maybe you'd stay at the house - and maybe she'd go off and maybe she'd stay? What kinds of things are you thinking?
 And how did you think (inaudible)
 (inaudible) ...what's kinds of specifics (inaudible)
 Memories of how it was this morning, or...?
 Can't you think of other (inaudible)
 Who's she talking to?
 Kind of visually?
 And then what?
 Well what a day would be like.
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 It's that same kind of thing over and over or do you have fantasies about what she [is doing?] (ph)
 And what do you tell yourself?
 Then what do you tell yourself that means? 
 (inaudible)
 Why is she hurting you?
 (inaudible)
 You won't say it to her...would you?
 But you're worried about that? Uh huh. Like you grew (ph) up or you... 
 (inaudible)
 Walking out the front door or something...that's what you're thinking huh?
 Why? [47:16]
 What? How's that?
 Like you've got feelings and they're bubbling around in...and you've got thoughts and they're...
 How do you think about it then?
 How do you think about it...or what do?
 Like remember the car coming up and how it felt when it came down the street and how you felt when she's gone.
 And she did she just left and she didn't even (inaudible). How do you feel now that you're thinking about it?
 Who wants to be with me? (inaudible) What are you feeling now?
 What happened to the (inaudible)?
 Why does this a hurting a relationship [I've got here.] (ph)
 What the hell am I going to do? How's she going to respond to me?
 Why?
 So you'd like it better...
 Like you say, "This sure as hell isn't working so maybe I want to be decisive."
 It sounds like you get (inaudible)...like a feeling of how you ought to be or something that's outside of what you're really feeling.
 Yeah...not sure what to do and when you're put on to that - some kind of like outside - well I ought to straighten up or be decisive or something...then. (Timer rings) Turn that off. You feel the [nickel on the chair.] (ph)Um...you're putting something external on that feeling of yours and then that's the part where you get stuck. [52:41]
 Maybe, but you've got to move...by the feelings you are feeling rather than the ones you wish you were feeling. Does that make sense?
 I know your feel hurt. That changes to the crummy, hurtful situation (inaudible). There's edges I guess to the verge of what it means without you or...maybe your undesirable or maybe...
 One thing that - I'm sorry - is that if you don't let yourself feel your feelings fully...it's coming back again and again and again and again and you can't get rid of it. The only way to get rid of it is to not get rid of it. And to let yourself feel that if you (inaudible) then something changes. [54:26]
 Like you understand it in theory but how the hell do you do it - like paying attention to what the pain feels like. And not running away from it by figuring what you ought to do about it. Or how you might look to somebody else or stuff like that. Sort of asking...you know like what does it feels like without - (inaudible) responding to it too quickly.
 What's it like though...before you make anything up? Like I know a little bit it hurts. It feels like she doesn't love you or doesn't want to be with you. (inaudible)
 What (inaudible)
 Do you feel the pain now or not?
 (inaudible)
 You're (inaudible) how the hell did I get there?
 [Let me ask you...] (ph)
 (inaudible) [Do other feeling come in or do the feelings shift any?] (ph)[Can you pay attention to her?] (ph)
 I feel feelings and then I feel feudal. [Like I can't move them.] (ph) But what are the feelings like before [you move them?] (ph)
 Feeling like you're weighted down; you're drowning?
 Okay.  Now, if I, um, remember right, you went, when did you go off, in the spring or the summer, the meds?
 Here we go, wait.  She feels less blah in 2 weeks, off the meds.  Yeah, sometime in the middle of May.  Um, all right. And you did well over the summer, right?
 And, like so what happened?  Did you start to feel depressed or withdrawn or - 
 Um.
 No.  In terms of?
 I mean, just it was difficult to be there.
 And then did you have issues with keeping up with class or [INAUDIBLE].
 How about with friends and stuff?
 Last year?
 Geez.  I mean, I wonder, did they, did they tell you you looked depressed?  Did they know?
 They all turned on you?
 Well, you probably scared them or something.  I mean, I don't know.  So, did you end up not going to class?
 Was this some kind of feeling like you wanted to be doing something else, or you just needed to not be there?
 Both?  Like you wanted to be somewhere else, or anywhere else.
 All right.  I mean, so you've been home for what a week?  Not even a week. Couple of [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah.
 Two weeks.  Oh, okay.  Somewhere I'm missing a week.  All right.  Um, so when you first got, when did you go, in August sometime?
 So they turned on you before you said you were leaving?
 Well, did they know you were gonna leave, or you just said you wanted to leave?  You don't know.  That's really strange.  So, um. How many roommates?
 So, when it first started, what was the first couple days of the week like?  Did you feel like you wanted to be there?
 Yeah, and now.
 You're upset enough.
 What, what were, what were you majoring in?
 Um, so, what are you gonna do, are you still thinking about [INAUDIBLE] in January?
 Are you gonna do physical education there?
 You can transfer your credits.  
 So what other classes are you taking, or what classes are you taking this semester?
 Do you like any of them, or - 
 Yeah?
 Hm.
 Yeah.  I mean, you've always hated reading?
 Like, um
 Yeah, um, well, what's the last book you read that was your choice, what you liked?
 What was it about?
 God.  Um, so, this was somethin' that was layin' around at the pool?
 I mean, do you ever pick stuff up and start reading it and say blah until you find something else?
 Hm?
 I mean, okay.  What did you have to read for English?  What was the first book [INAUDIBLE].
 And, you read some of it or try to read some?
 Hm, hm.  So, as you're reading it, what would be going on in your mind?  It would just be all of a sudden like, you have no idea what you were reading or - 
 Did you have to read it over and over?
 You probably were, what you were feeling you probably were much more easily districted than usual.
 I mean, were you able to follow the teacher, able to pay attention?
 Huh?
 Well, maybe you might have been less, you were feeling less depressed, maybe you would've been able to teach yourself.
 Um-hum.  Um, so, do you ever like forget to do assignments?
 No.  Do you write them down somewhere?  Pretty organized?  Do you lose things?  Keys, cell phone? No?
 Um, were you ever like runnin', runnin' out of the house in the morning and be like ah, what did I do with my shoes, or somethin' like that?  You couldn't remember where you put your shoes, you've got to look for them, or?
 What's your room look like?
 Yeah, well, what about when it's, when normally it's not all this stuff in the way?
 It's always messy.  Do you know where things are?
 That's what I was gonna ask.  If you put it away, it's gone.
 Um-hum.  Um, hmm.  How long were your classes, like an hour?
 So, did you have trouble sitting through the whole class Tuesday and Thursday?
 Yeah?  Is that abnormal or normally
 But you had some trouble in some of the classes in high school?
 Maybe.  I mean, it sounds like that's not, at this, at that point, it wasn't possible.  Somethin', so you were doing a lot of crying?
 Every day?
 The weekends?  Lonely?
 Did you ever do that?  Like drink to the point where you had no idea what you did?
 Well, you're sick the next day, or just 'cause you - 
 Yeah, I mean, potentially, yknow, it's dangerous 'cause you don't know what you're doing and anybody can do whatever they want with you or to you or whatever.  Um, all right, are you restless a lot?  Like antsy?
 Because?
 Your mind?
 The, um - 
 That's helping.
 All right.  Um, now which, you haven't gotten the Lexapro filled?
 Um -  
 Let's not use it.  We'll use something else.  You just didn't feel motivated, or?
 If I give you something else, and people tell you that, you need to tell me because you'll be off it in a second.  I'm not gonna, yknow, I'm sure you'd like to have your personality, yknow?
 Um, so, all right?  You'll tell me?
 Okay.  Um, all right, so, how much, um, Gabitril do you want?  One at night?
 Two of those, okay.  Are you taking like an hour before bed or somethin' or bedtime and then if you don't, with this, when you're really tired, you need to go to sleep, or that's without this?
 But this helps, you can sleep with this.
 Okay.  And you feel rested in the morning.
 All right.  Okay, let's see.  Um, I believe that, um, you, your family history has lots of, um, depression and whatnot.  Um, you don't have any idea who's on what meds, like what meds have worked for whom or
 That's what I mean, I mean who stated it, but other than that.
 Does that work for her?
 Does she seem like normal personality? Um.
 Who said that?
 Um, Wellbutrin, anybody been on that?
 Who has, somebody has ADHD, your brother?
 ADD.  Um, did anybody ever ask you or talk to you about possibly having that?
 No.  I mean, I have no idea.  I'm just wondering, what do you think?  Is that possible?
 You do, why?
 Behavioral stuff?  Like crazy, wild?
 Is he on medicine?
 I mean.
 The reason I'm asking is that obviously you have these depressive kind of symptoms so you can't really, yknow, evaluate thoroughly but things, I have ADHD and I used to be, eh, bouncing off the walls and did some crazy things that somehow I managed to stay alive.  I'm not sure how, but.  It's only been about 6 years that [INAUDIBLE] being on medicine and actually do this instead of running around the homeless schizophrenics, like driving around crazy [INAUDIBLE].  Um, uh, no, I mean, some of the things, now what I think I'll do is I'll give you some stuff to look at.  I'm not saying you do, but I'm wondering if part of the reason that, some of the things, let's say that I noticed, are that if you can't see it, it doesn't exist.  Yknow, if you don't like it, you take so much energy to force yourself to do something, whatever subject it is, reading or something, as opposed to if you like something, you just do it.  You can do it for hours and hours.  Um, and it's, it's kind of frustrating and in some ways, I mean, it may be worthwhile looking later at that.  Okay, I mean, it's you may very well not, but I'm just wondering.  All right, now you need a letter, right?
 And do you know what I'm supposed to - 
 All right, we'll get [NAME OTHER] in a minute.  All right, so I think what I'll do is um, well, you can, you can talk with her.  I mean Prozac would be a good possibility if it's helping your sister.  Wellbutrin, I mean, do you feel like you're dragging during the day?  Tired?
 Um, you, I mean, Wellbutrin might be a little more activating possibly.  I can, yknow, I'll ask your mother if she knows anybody that's been on it.  Maybe that would be a good, yknow, suggestion.  So, we could go get her, you want me to go get her?
 All right, well, you come back with her okay?
 All right.  I'm gonna use the Wellbutrin and talk to the mother about the letter now that's outside this interview [INAUDIBLE] that signed, so that's it.
 (inaudible at 04:15) two veins (ph), one (pause) to do with how much you don't want to be here and the other to do with how scared you are that (inaudible at 04:41) down there.
 It's not any better.
 What happened in (ph) the conversation with James?
 (inaudible at 09:55)
 (inaudible at 10:42)
 that's terribly disconcerting for you to not know how reasonable you're being. I mean, to not have your head in charge [I think] (ph).
 [It's impossible] (ph)?
 So you had a conversation with James (pause) and then Franco called fairly soon after that?
 And it was when the phone rang that you lost it?
 What (inaudible at 14:42)
 When you said you couldn't have another conversation like that (pause) how would those two conversations have been alike (ph)?
 Felt like a big mess?
 Do you still feel like crying hysterically?
(silence)
 (inaudible at 25:35) in a way it's impossible that all that could be true and it is all true. (pause) And nobody really knows what to do about it, and certainly I don't, you don't, James doesn't. But, you know, or even (pause)—[I don't even really] (ph) know a whole lot about what's going on. He (ph) knows some things.
 We know some things, but there's probably a lot we don't know.
 Are there (pause)—I could imagine you have moments of hating me as well for making you do this? [00:27:22]
 [Perhaps you didn't] (ph).
 I see, yeah. So, I'm not as much at fault that way either.
 And yet it's not completely disconnected from everything else, you know. [00:31:50] In other words, (pause) it's make a kind of sense that it (pause) came up after (pause) expressing being angry at James, (pause) which you knew you wanted to avoid doing.
 What's that?
 Oh, not that I'm aware of. No, I [write it a name] (ph), the way we can make you get worse. I'm not trying to make you feel worse. [00:32:53]
 I think there might be a way that (pause) it would have to some advantages (inaudible at 33:27) or a big kind of disconnected from everything, seemingly justify illogical kind of cloud of awfulness.
 But one thing (ph).
 Or that it had anything to do with this things that have happened or go in your life, such as your husband making you angry or being (inaudible at 34:24) with one of your best friends.
 I'm a little skeptical. How's that?
 I guess I feel like you're making it cake (ph) (pause) or how nothing helps and how you're very much defeated and overcome by all this. [00:38:42]
(silence)
But those things aren't entirely true. I mean, I get that at a certain level or once you're at a certain point nothing helps. Like when you feel really awful, like, nothing anybody says or anything anybody can do or any way to make it better, especially in that moment for a while. And that you can have long stretches of time where inside it's like that. I am not (pause) (inaudible at 39:41) I don't think, but (pause) again, things happening around you or with you do actually have an effect, sometimes for better and sometimes for worse on how you're feelings. And there are moments you're more able to do things and there are moments you're less able to do things. There are moments you're more defeated and moments you're less defeated. And (pause) I think it's (pause)—I think you're imagining that I was trying to give you hope and perhaps now thinking that I'm trying to be positive are ways you're setting up a disagreement between us about this. In fact... [00:41:16]
 What I think I'm actually doing is saying that you're (pause) using a sort of a psychological defense here or (pause) for coping purposes, fooling yourself a little bit to be less charitable about it, by wanting to see this as a sort of global, disconnected monolithic presence in your life, rather than something more (pause) subject to (inaudible at 42:33) with (pause) things that happen between other people (inaudible at 42:45).
 I mean, this is sort of (inaudible at 43:00) from my point of view, I'd feel a little like I'm, you know, maybe wrongly—that's to be determined—but con you in something a little bit, though I'm aware that (pause) you are feeling is a bit different that (pause) and sometimes I'm however (pause) (inaudible at 43:32), like, trying to cheer you up. [I think] (ph) I would never do that. (laughter)
(silence)
 We should finish up for now. (inaudible at 44:51)
(background noise)
 Client 1927-112. Reel 2, Tape 131. Interview 9, January 20, 1971. Austin (ph) counselor. 
 Does anything feel most important for you to talk about?
 What do you mean when you say you're not getting anywhere? (inaudible 0:02:42)
 [It's like you haven't changed with respect to feelings, meaning the confidence that you feel about what you want from life, about your marriage...they're still there.] (ph)
 Therapy hasn't given you the answer about what to do.
 Mm-hmm. You're disappointed. It doesn't seem clear to you what to do at this point. You don't feel change. You're still where you were in life.
 Does that make you feel sad? 
 You seem kind of...when I asked you that, you said, "Yeah," like it was an unwillingness to say that. [0:07:13]
 What are those changes?
 [You could have that kind of feeling.] (ph)
 [Which you didn't have.] (ph)
 It hit really deep.
 You felt really down.
 You mean and you talked not because it came after a violent interruption. It was just sharing.
 Was it helpful because something came out of it or just because it was a good feeling that came out of it?
 It's two of you, not just each of you individually.
 In kind of saying those things to each other, what it's like is the understanding. What it's like...if there were two of you, it would have had a "two-ness" to it. 
 I'm sorry. I should switch my phone off.
(period of silence 0:17:41 - 0:19:42)
 I kind of have the same kind of feeling for you that I had the last time you left because I remember it very strongly. [I have a feeling that you're really upset and it's because you can't see a way.] (ph)
 [You seem closed in, the way you are in the situation you're in.] (ph) Is there ever going to be a way that's going to seem clearer and that you can be happy and have what you want?
(period of silence 0:20:34 - 0:27:50)
 [You feel physically depressed.] (ph)
 [Does that kind of follow with] (ph)...for a while there, I had a sense that you were feeling in your head depressed. Did that kind of come on afterward?
 It's kind of (inaudible 0:29:22). You kind of go through something in your head that feels very tense and very (inaudible 0:29:33). It's like after you left (inaudible 0:29:34). But what was...what's the mental depression about?
 Yeah. I know when I was at the end of the last hour...I don't know if you remember that...what you were talking about, but it felt to me like you were starting to get into something. And I guess I kind of...and what you...and I thought that...I don't know. Like you probably had more to say about it or more feelings about it (inaudible 0:30:32), which with respect to the end of last hour...it's just like I really have a sense that where you were was just kind of feeling torn...really torn about what you don't have with respect to your wife and the gratifications that she doesn't give you or really what you want.
It was kind of like you were seeing that and [kind of sensing it.] (ph) It was kind of a sense of hopelessness and despair. [0:31:03]
 Just what happens when you start to feel that despair? Do you kind of start to feel immobilized? You don't know what to do with it? Because I notice like when you do feel down, it's...you just...you're very different in a way. You know you're not-
 You mean does it really feel like you...it can't be worked out? You don't really kind of...it's hard for you to kind of have a sense that you and your wife can live together and be satisfied and fulfilled and happy? [0:33:22] 
 You could do some patchwork (inaudible 0:33:32)
 Yes. Even why it can never be that way, you just don't know, but somehow you have a sense that it is that way.
 Mm-hmm.
 You know it's missing. You know what's missing in a way. (inaudible 0:34:38). But why is it this way and why does it have to be this way...you just don't know the answer to that. You're kind of left with, "That's the way it is." 
 Does that kind of give you a feeling of like, "What's the point then?" or "It's hopeless"?
 Frightened about what a divorce means?
 It's like there's no end-product there. That's just the beginning.
 And what the hell lies after that? 
 Will you ever find anybody or will you just be very lonely kind of like the (inaudible 0:36:07) who wants to go (inaudible 0:36:10) at the party.
 And it's like the doors really do feel closed or you don't know what's behind them. It's like on the one hand there's really the sense that it's not going to be...it can never be really (inaudible 0:37:36). Kind of the alternative is [worse than something else] (ph), but would you ever find it there? It's like you kind of feel like you're in a compromise now and it feels pretty bad to be in, but would it be worse the other way? You have no way to weigh that (inaudible 0:38:03)
 You held back.
 Your fate is sealed.
 It's a lot harder when there's a kid involved.
 You don't know if you want to stay.
 (inaudible 0:39:47) [afraid to go.] (ph)
 Is it what's keeping you together is your fright [of losing each other?] (ph)
 It's just not the whole pie.
 Yeah. It's kind of like out of...it's a "save you" gesture in a way, not because you want to...not because when you really feel sharing you want to share it, but because...you (inaudible 0:41:09) to it because then it'll really be over. It's kind of to keep it where it is in a way.
 Yes.
 [That you're lacking?] (ph)
 You really feel you're at a choice point and I guess you kind of felt it a while, but maybe it feels more narrowing now (inaudible 0:44:37). You don't know which road to take. It's like you don't know if the road with your wife leads anywhere. It never leads it to a nice place that's really happy to live.
 You don't know if you want a future "for us," I guess.
 You don't know why you have the feeling. Kind of the effects of having a feeling is kind of like you can't feel like that road really...you feel like that road doesn't...it doesn't go anyplace. You can't feel it. You don't feel that it goes anyplace, but the other road may be your wife. God, that's really unknown territory. It's scary territory. It's not mapped. You have to create your own map and find your way. That's pretty scary.
Kind of the effect of it all is this kind of leaves you with just a real kind of despairing feeling like, "Is there no hope?" or "What can I do?" [0:48:05]
(period of silence 0:48:06 - 0:54:05)
 It feels like choosing one of those roads is just an incredibly big decision.
 And it involves my whole body. I can sense that I (inaudible 0:54:56) that choice part. I sure as hell wouldn't know what to take (inaudible 0:55:04). Does that...? It looks like that makes you feel really lousy.
 (inaudible 0:55:23) Is it angry? (inaudible 0:55:26)
 How so?
 Like you're wasting yourself away and kind of not living your life and I'm not kind of helping you to find the answer? Is that why you feel angry at me? Were you feeling angry-?
 Oh. I thought you were angry at me because I couldn't tell you the answer, but I can't. I think you know that.
 Yeah, but it's like your sense there was a...that anger was kind of, "God dammit! The times are going by. The days go by. The weeks go by. The months have gone by. The years have gone by. And where had it all led? I've got one life to live. Am I really wasting it in this marriage?" 
 (inaudible) client.
 (inaudible) talk about (inaudible).
 Yes I am. 
 Do you have some feelings about that? I usually give people about five minutes and kind of (inaudible) be lying. And then I say something about it to see if it's something (inaudible).
 Uh huh. What do you need to know what to expect?
 Oh yes. Yes. (pause) 
 Yes. I called down there and she apparently didn't see you sitting down there.
 (laughter) 
 Do you? Do you like being quiet?
 Are you (inaudible)?
 Like what?
 (inaudible) something really different for you. (pause) 
 (inaudible) for therapy?
 What do you mean?
 That you were out of touch.
 What?
 (inaudible) what?
 (Laughter) (inaudible) 
 It sounds like you felt relaxed but you didn't feel quite at ease with him. 
 No, you didn't.
 Do you - no.
 I'm hanging. (laughter) (6:12)
 Yes, sounds like it was a drag to be in there.
 Your parents were what?
 Oh yes. (8:25)
 Sounds like partly just for fun.
 You needed to get money, of for more than that?
 Um huh.
 Oh I see.
 Got scared right there at the door. (11:08)
 You really in someway didn't want to.
 And you were really hoping that she'd be kind to you.
 And then you wouldn't feel that particular need to go out and do something crazy now. (13:07)
 Very disappointed and down.
 Huh?
 No it isn't. What makes you think that (laughter).
 What do you mean it seemed like a joke?
 And it bothered you to be...
 ...just known as the jewel thief.
 Yes. You feel dehumanized by that.
 You couldn't possibly have done anything. It seemed very ironic that you were, you know.
 It sounds like you were enjoying the ridiculousness of the whole situation.
 Go ahead.
 What? Yes I do. 
 It was all pretty much an adventure...
 ...I think with (inaudible). Gosh it would really be fun it just didn't have any consequences.
 I just knew vaguely something about you were being tried for robbery so, but I saw it in the folder that you had said something (inaudible), that's all I knew. 
 You really liked that.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So there again it was like a new experience.
 Interesting people.
 Kind of disappointed about that?
 How does all of this seem to you know that it's all over with and present that you're back home?
 Do mean in the sense of sort of being down and still being bored? What?
 But there's just really nothing.
 But really nothing breaks - nothing much breaks from, I don't know if it's just monotony or (inaudible at 29:20) back.
 You mean you...
 I mean way you feel about them is always the same.
 And what is that feeling bored or (inaudible)? 
 Like hoping that when you go there something will happen to you.
 Because you went there. And then feeling disappointed because nothing happens. 
 It would just be fun just to have conflict or anything.
 And even that would be more interesting (cross talk).
 So even that was disappointing?
 It just sounds like kind of running from one place to another hoping something will happen. 
 And just nothing does or if it does it doesn't last very long.
 You mean when start doing the thing you start wondering what the reason is.
 Rather then spread out you mean?
 You (cross talk at 34:00).
 It almost sounds like you get happy and then you start worrying about what it is that's making you happy or how to keep yourself happy.
 And so it so unpredictable. 
 Yes. 
 Yes.
 It just comes and goes on its own, totally out of any control that you have over it.
 What is that frightening that that's like that?
 It's normal, that's the way it always happens.
 (inaudible) negative you mean, or...
 Like it's very touchy, almost breakable (inaudible) don't let her do anything (inaudible). 
 It sounds like you're - somehow you really are touchy and you can turn it off and say to yourself, "I don't care." but that there's really something there. 
 Why is that being touchy at all?
 You get really irritated.
 Yes. Certainly both of them are bad. Like you can either choose to be really touchy and have your happiness probably ruined anyway or once you start saying you don't care and just get really depressed.
 Like your mind just felt - when you say dead, what do you mean?
 Sleeping?
 But the way you're living is just really much different than being dead.
 Because your mind is - when you say your mind is sleeping I'm not quite sure what you mean.
 Sort of painful.
 Yes. It sounds like that is somehow tied up with being all these people around; you wouldn't care what happened to you.
 Worse because you've counted on those people not to leave you?
 You let things really (inaudible at 43:57) of it. 
 Like almost making yourself dead.
 There's a whole inner part of you, which just isn't thinking.
 You're turning off a switch.
 Does it feel peaceful?
 It's partly peaceful and partly...
 Pain. (pause) 
 Like you don't have any.
 Well it's like you don't even have one way out or one way to...
 You'd know that it wouldn't be real.
 And you wouldn't quite be able to do it with (inaudible).
 Yes, because you'd know it wasn't the real thing.
 But there's a part of you that wants to get to something really - where you can be really happy and really enjoy things rather than just temporarily pretend or something like that. (48:39) (pause) 
 Is it going fast now?
 Something you can't quite put into words but...
 So you can't take them all at once, you (inaudible) you could only take a little of that at a time, or it's going too fast. Yes.
 Uh huh. But then another part of you that is more slow and - maybe not just more slow, it's something else too.
 Free.
 And then you get a (inaudible).
 Hopeless.
 The bad in yourself or what's going to happen to you? Or what do you mean?
 So you - it's kind of like what part of what happens there you can just start to get angry at lots of little things. 
 You mean willing to accept the fact that you want your own way?
 Well do you kind of - you suspect that you are maybe?
 You don't want to be (laughter). (pause) The way you say that selfish brat sounds almost like that's something someone is saying to you.
 (inaudible at 53:12) 
 But you're sort of worried that really applies to you.
 Not really you.
 Maybe I just am that way.
 You got really depressed because you were just turned into a machine.
 So you're saying now what I want to do is just partly to just see what I really am if I don't control it.
 Which way was the way you felt?
 Completely drained. There's so many things that happened to you. Noting to give (inaudible) too?
 So is that like as long as you have to be in this kind of environment, which is so bad in so many ways it just seems useless. That's part of the...
 Sounds like... huh?
 You're tired?
 You didn't want to be at all connected with all this?
 Money grabbing, selfishness I guess, whatever. 
 Just like to get away from it all. 
 And not (inaudible).
 Take it out on someone else. You know, really it was a way of showing them what you thought of them.
 Which is money?
 So you really felt like getting back at them.
 You didn't somehow - when you say you didn't follow your own plan...
 And Henry that you're not sure why you didn't?
 Getting involved in what the experience was like.
 When you said blew it, it doesn't sound like - I can't quite tell whether you're terribly sorry you blew it or...
 Yes. That's what I thought. (laughter) 
 Well it sure sounds like you have a lot of feelings bouncing around.
 A lot of feelings inside bouncing around all over the place.
 Yes. That's what I thought. I'm afraid we're going have to stop. It's 10:30.
 11:30, you're right. Would you like to come in twice a week or once a week?
 Okay. Fine. How about - how is Wednesday morning at this time.
 Okay, how about Wednesday morning at 9:00?
 Afraid you won't remember it?
 When you go by down there, as you walk out each time, then tell her that. If you go down and tell her that you're coming Wednesday at 9:00. 
 Uh huh. That's all.
 The only other thing I wanted to say because got into your other - if you do want to you know, if you have any feelings about me being blind that want to talk about, feel free to talk about that. I say that because some people don't feel free sometimes. So if you do experience this, go ahead.
 Okay. Yes that's it. 
 And so I'll see you on Wednesday then.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Who the roommate or the friend?
 You told me about this roommate that he was very messy and that [INAUDIBLE]
 So you had someone who was able to pay the whole rent so you didn’t have to worry about the rent.
 So he acted like it was his?
 Hold on, so let me get back. I saw you three months ago. You did well in the [DEIDENTIFIED]. You were more stable, you’re making jewelry, your appetite was good, you were doing yoga, your energy was low, you’re not suicidal, your sleep was fine, you’re tired all the time. 
 We thought, in the context of your chronic psychotic disorder, to drop the Klonopin down to 1 mg at night or between 0 and 1. We tried to let you reduce it. Were you able to reduce it?
 Hold on, hold on. I want to be very specific. 
 Okay but I need to know exactly what you’re doing. You reduced the Klonopin down to what?
 Why? What’s the matter, have you been anxious?
 Okay.
 Hold on, hold on, let me continue. I don’t mean to interrupt you. You’re also taking, we reduced your Lexapro down to 10 mg, are you taking that?
 And we continued your Risperdal at 3 mg.
 You’re taking that, right?
 Okay. So in these three months, how has your mood been?
 Hold on, but before the last week or two, how have your moods been?
 You were doing okay for two and a half months.
 So your mood was stable. Were you hearing things?
 Were you paranoid?
 You were getting along okay with your husband?
 But you were here for the three months, you were in [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Were you getting along with people in [DEIDENTIFIED] with people in your world here?
 All right. So, when did you have this conflict? When did you have this conflict?
 All right but up until then, for two and a half months that I hadn’t seen you, you were not having conflicts?
 And then what happened two weeks ago. What changed?
 Well when did you lose the roommate you have?
 So it’s in the setting of money trouble.
 That you’ve been more stressed out.
 And that’s over the last two weeks?
 And then what has happened over these two weeks? You had the fight with the friend, what else?
 That’s okay, what else has happened? You had the fight with her, what else? What else…
  Okay, you mean on the phone you’ve been having fights with him.
 But I guess he can always hang up.
 As if you didn’t just have a fight.
 Well that’s nice…
 In the last two weeks, have you been hearing anything that’s not really there?
 Have you been getting a little paranoid?
 But that’s not paranoid.
 Is anyone trying to hurt you in any way?
 Are you, have you been confused lately, hard to focus and concentrate.
 So over the past two weeks, things have gotten worse. What’s the worst thing that’s happening to you?
 So you’re more sad?
 Do you cry?
 How frequently? Every day?
 Do you think you’re crying every day?
 Do you ever get into sobbing?
 Not that much meaning never or once in a while?
 How’s your self-esteem? Do you feel like you’re no good?
 Really?
 That’s terrific.
 You should bring some here. I’d like to see it.
 Wow, it’s beautiful.
 Yes I do.
 Well, I think you’re a little misguided. [DEIDENTIFIED] is a system that helps give you some structure and helps give you some skills to move forward. I don’t think you should worry that they’re going to do anything that constrains you.
 Well, your sister can help you a little bit can’t she? 
 I would love for you to find a day program or some structured environment where you can go to get support.
 I really think you should go.
 Is there any way I could help?
 Do you want a new therapist? I mean do you want…
 Okay. Okay, good.
 She can call me also and we can all get together in pushing you forward into [DEIDENTIFIED]. I don’t think you should be worried at all that it will constrain you.
 Okay.
 Yes, absolutely. Do you- and you’ll get a caseworker also, that will help you. 
 That’s right. Do you find that you get pleasure normally, are you able to enjoy things?
 What’s his name?
 [NAME OTHER]?
 Is he a boyfriend, is he your boyfriend?
 Okay.
 By fun you mean you have sex?
 Lexapro can do that but it sounds like you’re depressed enough that we don’t have the luxury of pulling it away unless you really want- I mean normally I would say we could pull back on the Lexapro but now is not really a good time, you’ve been crying a lot, you seem sadder than you were.
 How’s your appetite?
 You gaining or losing weight?
 Are you- let me move on. Are you sleeping okay?
 I mean do you get to sleep when you want to, you sleep a full night, and you wake up when you want to in the morning.
 Do you ever feel that life’s not worth living?
 But do you feel like you want to die?
 Do you feel a bit overwhelmed? 
 So you feel almost helpless.
 Do you feel hopeless?
 So you don’t feel especially hopeless?
 Yeah, well, you know, life’s been stressful for you but I think you’re doing really well. 
 I think you’re managing it as best you can and there’s a chance you could be starting to get a little depressed but I don’t think you’re there yet. I think you’ll be able to turn this around without us needing to raise your antidepressant. What I’d like you to do it this, I want you to come back in about three months. You don’t need to see me that much and, you know, you don’t need to spend your money.
 I’ve been seeing you since [DATE].
 Three months. I saw you three months ago.
 You’re exactly on time.
 Here’s what I’d like you to do. I think you’re going to turn this little mild depression around within the next week or two. If you don’t, in one month I want you to call me, okay? Can you remember that?
 I want you to call me in one month if you’re still, if your mood is not back to normal.
 Okay?
 Well, you’re doing all the right things. You’re starting with [DEIDENTIFIED] and you’re taking your other medicine. Now, on the Lexapro, can you predict the days that you’re going to be having sex? Do you know which day it’s going to be?
 You don’t know the day before?
 If you know the day before, skip the Lexapro.
 Okay.
 If you skip one day of Lexapro, you’ll be able to orgasm better.
 Okay, if you know the day before. Do you take it morning or night?
 Okay, so if you think you might have sex that day…
 That’s right. Or even if he does come, you can take it after he leaves.
 Do you understand?
 You can take your dose of medicine after not before.
 Okay but for now, I want you to stay on 10 of Lexapro, I want you to stay on the 3 of Risperdal, and stay on the dose of Klonopin you’re on.
 No, I mean even though it may be pushing your energy down a little bit, I think for your anxiety you really need it.
 Oh yeah.
 Do you have to pay them?
 They’re probably some online outfit that gets people, you know….
 Okay, listen, let’s hope that you have some good luck and that you get a terrific roommate and that things will go well. Okay.
 All right, give me a call in a month if things are better.
 I don’t know, do the best you can. You’re not allowed to the psychiatrist.
 All right, take care of yourself.
 I’ll see you in three months.
 The ticking started getting louder. 
 It seemed to.
 With a few different clocks, actually.
 Good morning.
 Helps us feel younger.
 This has to do with what's actually going on in the present?
 What was it that annoyed you about what I said about narcissistic . . . 
 Like an insult.
 I hope I gestured that I don't I think you're narcissistic or that grandiosity is the issue here. That's not how I see it.
 That's pretty gallant.
 I guess I feel like at the end of your recounting of yesterday and then thoughts, you're sort of headed for this "now over to you" moment. 
 There's something about the way your thinking sort of stops there and you kind of "hand the mike over", I think.
 Sure.
 I have two thoughts about that. The first is that this is something that you tended to do for a while, maybe since we started meeting. I am struck now by the commentary on the story that you add to the story about what happens and which, I think, reflects some better integration of these two states that you're referring to, where you can say, "Yes, I was in and out of it in this way yesterday," where you have some idea of what the triggers for it were and why, I think, and can track the swings. It tends to work where, when you're more into it for a while, you can be more out of it afterwards. When you're more into it and miss the lunch, you can be more out of it and really in tune in the tutorial. [00:21:08] I guess the serious thing to me is the way that there is a sort of end point where your associations stop and that seems to be like you can feel it coming. There's something about being there rather than the associations that I think is probably important. I guess I'd say at this point that there's some of each. There are some areas of the story and some associations to it like, "It was this. It was that." [00:22:09]
 It's like a point where you're going to kind of hand the mike over and sort of stop the story and so say, "Okay, Ethan. What do you think of that?" Again, clearly the point is for me to make something of what you said. I'm not . . .
 To me the thing is there seems a point where your thoughts stop and you want to hand it over, which is in parallel with maybe some of the splitting off that happens.
 What sorts?
 Of what, in particular?
 If I just sort of get you to stop 
 Between your . . . 
 It is a small suicide with real consequences with both.
 (chuckles) There isn't much more to it. I think of how awful or inadequate or something you're feeling in comparison to your colleagues who have more status or, I don't know if it's also the students, those students are a pretty elite group so there's a lot of status there. That seems to be what you're reacting to with these thoughts of self-destruction, like a feeling of not being good enough or hating yourself for it, and which you kind of take out on yourself with these fantasies. I think the relief that they provide is, "Instead of feeling so inadequate and self-hating, I could take it out on myself by shooting myself in the head and, having done that, I'd be relieved of it." [00:29:15]
 They are considerable.
 Meaning?
 Like maybe the societal thoughts are just a way of getting out of feeling so bad. [00:30:40]
 It's kind of like an internal tantrum or meltdown.
 And does the first part seem accurate that it's feeling inadequate and self-hating compared to these other people?
 I see. That's how the status and the abandonment piece go together. It's that they're leaving you behind. I see. (pause) [00:33:18]
 No, no, no. We've got ten minutes. 
 Yeah, sure. 
 Right. You want to be feeling what you're feeling, but not so knocked over by it that you can't also keep your wits about you and do the job at hand. [00:39:25]
 It seems like all three of these instances, yesterday in the class while the student was reading about her friend with mental illness, the moment in [ ] (inaudible at 00:40:17) office, and yesterday when you were at home—maybe not that one as much—there is clearly some distance but also more cross-talk, I guess.
 It's a start, anyway.
 I guess the other thing, I suppose, we're going for is ameliorating how painful these kinds of things are in the first place. The point isn't just to be aware that when you get news of a colleague who's got a fancy position, you're aware of how shitty you feel and why, but also that you feel that shitty about it. (chuckles) I guess what also relates to the events we're talking about is your having a little more of a narrative or an integrated sense of how you've suffered from this and how it works. You've known how much this has cost you, I think, since you walked in here. That's not new. [00:42:13]
 I don't know specifically, but I do think it's certainly possible to ameliorate these kinds of things. In other words, to both ameliorate the extent to which these insults, if we call them that, hurt and overwhelm you, and the way that your reaction to it occurring becomes kind of split off and also involves a kind of functional or professional suicide. I guess these are all reactions to the pain of these kinds of insults and I think that those kinds of problems, in general, are workable. You never quite know what the end state is going to look like, but it's certainly possible to address them pretty significantly. That is very much a therapy problem. We should stop. Did you want to stop?
 Take care.
 God, is this too bad.
 A nutritionist.
 I don't know. I don't know whether they have but...
 To help you with your diet?
 I'm sorry, what happened?
 You said "Suz"?
 Suzie.
 And they're dramatic  -
 Artistic director.
 In the dream?
 Hmm.
 Hmm, it's an interesting dream.
 The searching for the script or searching for the right thing to say or the right way to be?
 You've got an audition, or you've got a rehearsal?
 And that's happening tonight?
 Steve Allen, the comedian?
 Um-hmm.
 Right.
 Yeah, you're going real fast. I'm trying sort of half catch up with you.
 I was almost thinking of the Steve Allen and the begonia... You're nervous now?
 So it's hard to sort of stay with the nervousness maybe a little bit?
 Instead of want to like figure it out or know what it's about or...
 Yeah, yeah, because what would happen if you felt that...
 No wait, wait, wait. What would happen if you felt it?
 Well, great.
 Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's the story? I mean is the story  -
 Is it too -
 Is it, though, also a way of avoiding the nervousness?
 If you tell the story?
 I'm not so sure that's... Go ahead.
 I don't know. I mean it's up to you, certainly.
 Well, this is your panic disorder guy.
 I'm trying.
 (Chuckling).
 Um-hmm, but somehow I think we're still - you're still waiting to get on the train, you're waiting, because there's something about telling stories and this and that and talking that keeps you...
 I am pretty smart too, I think about...
 That you can avoid the nervousness by talking about it? Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's the thing that you're worried about.
 You're afraid that that's going to happen.
 Well, I'm just kind of having a hard time keeping up here; it's going very fast.
 I don't know.
 What do you mean?
 Well, I know it's a little confusing in terms of what I'm sort of trying to point out here.
 But there's something about feeling like there's a lot of - even talking about the nervousness seems to be almost a way of avoiding it, as if it's - it feels a bit sort of frantic to me. It's like just keep talking, just keep moving forward, keep telling stories, keep relating what's going on in here, the things that happened this weekend. You know, that seems to be just this running away from it, this really scary feeling, this nervousness that you're afraid of.
 And you know, I'm just wondering if it might not - to try to get closer to the nervousness maybe would be somewhat useful. I mean you understand the principle, I think; you said it again and again. The experience is a little hard to pick up too.
 Yeah, the experience. Not so much talking about it, but the experience, because there's a big difference between talking about your nervousness and really feeling it.
 It's really familiar to me, you know, somewhat familiar.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Well, those are contradictions. Is that - should I try to figure out where it's coming from? It's not going to let you feel it and should I just get rid of it and relax? Those two are - [they're optical] (ph) aren't they?
 Right.
 Well, you know, it's my feeling that there's a lot of fear about feeling it in you. There's one fear about acknowledging your interference, acknowledging your vulnerability. You know, just there's a lot of concerns about what that would feel like if people aren't into your concerns about yourself and the competence of... So there's a lot of reasons behind that.
 So you know, I think all that stuff goes into why it's so difficult for you to experience it. I think if you were a little bit more comfortable with your vulnerabilities, your fears and insecurities, it might not be so hard to feel it.
 And you might actually find that your insecurities and vulnerabilities are actually really - you know, with time they might become really important resources for your work (inaudible at 16:24).
 What made you make a connection to that?
 The table?
 I'm not sure I understand that, that connection between that and your vulnerability and...
 So it's just easier and so it's like, you know, there's the insecurity and... Would you say that?
 You have a sense of what's going on for me now?
 You seem to sort of just...
 Yeah. A yawn and just like tired.
 Tired look.
 So it can't be... Well, I don't think depression necessarily comes with (inaudible at 18:38) your vulnerability. But for you right now, it does.
 What do you mean (inaudible at 19:06).
 Sounds like Forrest Gump or something (chuckling).
 Is that who you are?
 It was a good feeling?
 So when you were feeling it in here can you - what was that? You sort of just - you sort of felt uncomfortable with my...
 You know, it's really interesting. I kind of got distracted too.
 So when you come in here there's like - you know, there's a bit of performance.
 The expectation of doing something that I want you to do and... [22:03]
 But the entertainment part.
 And that too in here.
 So there's some sense of wanting to entertain me here, to charm me or...
 Right, right. But I wonder how it plays out between us, you know? That would it be like to be yourself in front of me? What would I think? Would I get bored if I were to find out who you really are or what you really feel or...
 I got...
 So you had a reaction to that, I mean something that I hear or something about what I said that doesn't sit right for you?
 And so it felt a little - something I said felt a little...
 Boy, I'm in a real weird senses today about working or this really  -
 Well, I'm not really trying not to blame you. I'm sensing somehow that we're not, and since it's working together, and I'm wondering, you know, or have a sense of  -
 Yeah. It feels a bit. It feels a bit like - I don't know who's chasing who, but I think perhaps I'm chasing you and trying to say "Let's run together" and feeling like it's hard right now. [24:25]
 Because what happens in here is very particular to you and me, although I think it probably has some implications for what happens when you were tarrying (ph) with your friends and your family. But I'm getting the - I'm having a hard time sort of working with you in terms of understanding what's happening between us. I mean it's like you take the ball and you run with it. You're taking things that I say and either blame yourself in it or just want to apply it to another story. And I'm feeling a little left out, like hey, you know... Does that make any sense to you at all?
 Yeah, uh-huh? Okay.
 I'm wondering if you have any other reactions to it, to what I said?
 Uh-huh. Are you just going to give me a break here or are you going to - is there any other reactions you have? Does it not make sense?
 So what is it about us working together on this part? What is it that might be difficult?
 Is it a bit like it's your show in here?
 You don't want me to be (chuckling).
 I want top billing there, you know?
 Yeah, really get kind of uncomfortable and then what do we do.
 But you know, I am here instead of running away from it, and maybe we can like just keep at it and figure out what it is.
 So you always have to have a plan before you come in here?
 That's just like whatever happens happens.
 Well, maybe this is a good place to start.
 (Chuckling).
 (Chuckling). Because they keep driving us out of here.
 This week. I'll be in the back seat.
 Why don't I drive?
 (Chuckling) no.
 Well, I guess I'm driving a bit right now.
 You don't like the road I chose?
 It sounds like - well, I'm not sure. Can you say a little bit more about that?
 That I don't give suggestions. [29:46]
 But I don't recall you ever fighting with me over the wheel.
 Yeah. That's what's so difficult for me sometimes I think. So that makes it hard for me to know. "Hey, he just got the wheel. How did he get the wheel? He told that story; that's how he got the wheel. He distracted me. He said, 'Look out there' and grabbed the wheel." You know, it would be different I think if you kind of just said, "You know what? This is what I'm feeling right now. Then I'd feel  - " (cross talk)
 Why are you doing that now?
 Right, but I think this is kind of important to what you're saying, you know. I think you're telling me something important and I want to get it. [31:59]
 I'm wondering if at those times where - you're just convincing yourself so that I know better what you're feeling than you do.
 But that would be sort of familiar to you, isn't it? Not have to defer to say this person probably knows?
 And not to trust yourself?
 Not to take the risk and say, "Hey, wait a minute. I think I know what's going on here." Even if it takes sort of get angry if I seem to be missing something that you think is important or [to who you really are or really] (ph) affects who you are and what's going.
 And I might not really be getting it.
 You rarely...
 Yeah, I  -
 It seems to happen sometimes.
 Boy, it would be so interesting here. I don't know what I'd think. I don't know.
 Oh no (chuckling).
 Oh, I hate the way that sounds.
 (Cross talk) supervision from first. Maybe...
 Maybe I need a little direction from you.
 No. I don't know why you have that assumption.
 Well, I don't think that it's my fault. (chuckling).
 Yeah, yeah. I've often felt I'd have a lot of power that way and it would make you doubt yourself.
 Sometimes I probably do. You know, I never like the consequences though. I like to be right. Of course I like to be right. It's like have you think I'm smart or know what I'm doing or...
 Yeah. (chuckling).
 No, it's up to you to assert yourself and tell me if I'm not getting it.
 You mean to have a choice?
 Yeah.
 All right, now, wait a minute (chuckling). Well, we tied that one up.
 And it's hard.
 To please him.
 He really doesn't have your best interests...
 And it's easy to do that. I mean you do that; that's a pattern, right?
 Well, to sort of sacrifice your own needs, and what you feel you know is right and best for you to sort of please other people. [38:04]
 Is there something about that dilemma that makes you kind of sad?
 So the concerns still are the work still and the learning to believe in yourself at this point.
 And I sense that that brings up some - I mean I get the feeling that brings up some strong feelings (inaudible at 40:36) that issue.
 The quest for some kind of self acceptance and peace of mind?
 And you didn't get that. [42:13]
 A lot of anger about (inaudible at 42:35)
 Is it?
 Cares.
 Um-hmm.
 Wow. Sounds like you got through to each other.
 You got through to her?
 Hey, I'm not going to have that conversation.
 You mean when you're on the train and it slows down that's when...
 You've taken the danger out of that environment.
 I don't understand.
 You feel like your fear of riding the train or the panic that comes from it, like horrible fantasy like that? Is that what you mean?
 And something horrible would happen.
 Yeah. Hmm. Interesting.
 Um-hmm. Um-hmm. I'm interested to hear that. I'm glad it's worked out so well for you.
 And it sounds (Inaudible at 50:24) face up to the pain and have the courage to do it.
 What about tonight? Will you face up to that?
 Pain of failure?
 Well, I guess it's a risk you always take when you get  -
 Why do you think that is?
 Than what? [52:16]
 Well, what's that about? "I don't want to do this."
 Too hard to think this is  -
 It's uncomfortable not knowing how to do what it is, knowing what, you know, it might come out looking like, facing all that fear.
 Right. I mean you're the - be the one that has to develop the tolerance or the interest in those feelings that come up.
 I mean it's not just a matter of tolerating, it's also, you know, kind of an interest in that. (inaudible at 53:25)
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Rock on. Congratulations. How does one begin to do that?
 Oh really?
 Oh really?
 Right, I remember you saying that...
 Yes, it used to be the [inaudible] Bank, which had said you were up for a closing.
 Oh good. [So I'm proud of you.] (ph)
 Right. So what does that mean, an open list or a closed list?
 Right it's very clear $175 only covers the gas. [00:12:10].
 [00:17:13]?
 Is that for family?
 Little, yes, increases.
 I think that even when things are looking a little brighter, my goodness. I guess that gets so quickly over [inaudible at 00:19:11] by - it's like a drop in the...
 I would be.
 No.
 No. [00:20:18]
 No.
 Oh really, she has a personal trainer?
 One of the few differences between Kelly Ripa and myself.
 Gee, I know we're serious, but...
 So now what has to happen? The closing's at one.
 Send the closing documents so there's stuff that has to get signed.
 So you've got to send her the corrected things, she's got to look that over, then she'll send you a link of the docs, then you have to stop at a Staples to print out copies of all the docs.
 Yes, we're talking about within the course of two hours.
 I get it. They're much more competent. [00:24:23]
 Yes, talk about her personal trainer.
 Oh you have them electronically from the bank?
 You can't just print out multiple copies?
 Complicated?
 For - it's a kids party or grown up?
 Really? I thought it was like a...
 Oh really? Okay.
 It dramatized it. What party - who's?
 Okay.
 Catchy.
 I don't know.
 What's the medication for?
 Neuphamine (ph) and Chlora.
 Probably shouldn't do that.
 There's good white noise programs for your iPhone.
 Yes.
 Is it the IRS stuff?
 They may not [hold them a bit.] (ph)
 You mean the meeting on Tuesday at the bank? [00:34:21]
 Maybe it's a little self-protective to think that way.
 Is that what the books say?
 No. That's not how I think of it anyway.
 Neither am - I mean there's - yes, I'm not quite sure what you mean by that either.
 No, I think, I think...
 You mean it's just not possible? [00:36:20]
 Yes. No question about that.
 No I think I know an answer to it now, which is that
 You know you just took the words right out of my mouth. I've been headed there this whole time.
 I think you're really anxious about anything going well because if one thing works then being in a rut as long as you have is seeing some of the light of day and then feeling fucking over again.
 I see.
 Yes, yes, sure.
 Yes, every few minutes. I don't think everything is out of your control and I do think you're very worried about feeling good or hopeful about anything because there are advantages to be inured to disappointment. [00:40:30]
 We can finish up for now.
 Good luck. Hope the closing goes well. [00:41:51]
 Good morning.
 Happy birthday.
 I do, I only look at the chart a little bit, but yeah I do. (laughs)
 Oh, ok.
 In the grass in Plymouth?
 I see.
 The CPA?
 She didn't back it.
 I can imagine all of this. You get like (pause) kind of frustrated with me. I mean do you feel like you're getting through to me with all of this stuff? About what things are like? [00:18:28]
 You don't feel like it doesn't just stay kind of bottled up inside where it is a lot of the time?
 (laughs)
 Well, maybe it's, maybe it's, I think it's the opposite. I think the anxiety and frustration make it more overwhelming. You know, past a certain point those things don't help you get into gear. They hang you up. It seems like that's more of what's going on. [00:23:41]
 How does that happen? That, that happens a lot.
 I don't, I think there's something more complicated going on here than that you're simply venting. You present it as if you're venting and it kind of sounds that way, but I think it's a little more complicated than that because usually when a person vents they're like done venting or they've done some amount of venting and it gives them a little more space to think and feel things. I don't think that's, I'm not so sure that happens for you. I mean you certainly throw a bunch of stuff out there and you know it's really strongly felt in the way that venting is really strongly felt, you know. Are you still with me?
 But, (sighs) I think there's more going on than just that. I think (pause), well here's a thought. Maybe you're object in venting the way you do is to keep anybody else around from being able to think any more than you can.
 Like maybe your point is to like try to get me to know so much what it's like to be in the middle of all this shit and I don't know what the fuck to do with it either. Like (long pause) I think at some level you kind of don't want me to be able to think about it either. You just want me to go, "holy shit." (gagging sound), you know like.
 I don't think you're kind of consciously planning this, but I think you get very envious...
 Where you were. Something I've been thinking recently is (long pause), you know maybe there's more of this than psychological and has been clear. I mean your circumstances are extremely difficult and they've been extremely difficult for a while. There's no question about that, very stressful, very overwhelming, incredible frustrating, very upsetting, you know. The finances, the, you know, work situation, you know the separation is a little more complicated there, but it's difficult. I'm not questioning any of that, but (long pause) that doesn't exactly add up to this. I mean for someone (pause), I know we've basically talked about that when you're feeling better like and can apply your intelligence and your resourcefulness, like you can make things happen to improve your situation and I don't think you have access to those capacities because of, let's say, your anxiety and depression, right? Which would be hard in any case; I'm not disputing that at all. But, you have been quite paralyzed clearly. You know, things, it's not been flat; you're not nearly able to work or operate at kind of your capacity. And it kind of easy and maybe we've been, I think we have been, including me, kind of too complacent in thinking about your anxiety and depression as kind of merely biological factors that have paralyzed your ability to think and work and sort of try to find a way out of this. You know, however slow, torturous, whatever, are you still with me? [00:32:09]
 And, so I've been trying to find another way or other ways to start to think about this. Like, you know, what are the, what are kind of the psychological dynamics going on here? You know, what can we gather from a closer reading of how you're acting, what you're doing, how you're interacting with the people around? (pause) So to find another way to understand like, how and why you're so paralyzed. And the easiest way to understand with you is to look at what is going on in the room here. You know, how you are with, what you seem to want, how you act, and so forth. But, a lot of which is kind of unconscious, but can be informative. So, and it will probably sound a little weird to you that I talk about it, so let me forewarn you about that, but I think it may be that you are (long pause), [inaudible at 00:33:57] maybe so (long pause) enraging for you for that anybody else, I'm thinking mostly of me and Jess at the moment, has the capacity to think, to feel things, to like have some room to maneuver, that you kind of in an unconscious way want to act to shut that down. It's like, you know if the kid next door gets a toy that you wanted and you break it because you so wanted it and so didn't get it. So like, you're on the phone with Jess the other day and she's like coming out about the modification and you need to do this and you can't do that and she's all upset and I know that based on what you told me, but like. And what you said about it was she's driving you nuts, that she's going ballistic over something you've gone over five times before and there's nothing you can do anything about. But I'm pretty clear about that.
 Right. So I think, I think there is an aspect of that to do with just not being about to stand her thinking about it, her wanting something, her being upset. And you just sort of want to, I think not just shut her out, but shut her down. (pause) I think it's like you want to, and again, kind of in a converse way, like tell her give up, tell her to abandon all hope, and to stop thinking about it, and to stop worrying about it because when she does those things it's just too much for you. Like, you kind of can't handle her in a way having a mind of her own on it because it's too much. So, I think what you then, you're move is to like try to trash that and say like, "forget all about it, let them take the house," you know. I, I am you know sometimes like you and what you want and how you think about this and whatever might be in [inaudible], like doesn't exist, like you're dead to me, like it doesn't exist anymore. (long pause) And I think you do that, I think that may be related to when you don't hear something that's said. Like... (long pause) What do you think about any of this? Like I said, it probably sounds kind of weird to you. [00:38:12]
 What crosses your head? What reactions do you have?
 I think, I think you do care because I think you can't bear to hear it. You know what I mean? Like if you didn't care it would be like wa-wa-wa, but it isn't like that. You know, you've got to slam the phone down or you've got to tell her to stop fucking thinking about it. Or let them take the fucking house. Do you know what I mean? That's not quite not caring. That's actually caring a lot and not, I think what it is, is not being able to handle how she cares. (long pause) Yeah. I'm not blaming you for that. I'm not saying you did something wrong, I just, not caring is a much more easygoing state. See what I mean? (long pause) And I think that a lot of it comes down to envy of what she's got that you don't. I think that gets unbearable very fast. (long pause) As far as, when you say you don't care anymore and you're like (pause), is there anything you want to say about that? [00:40:56]
 The thing is, things I don't understand I suspect both of us don't understand, so that is how this is working. Let me explain. I, I am clear about how everything is a reminder. You know, like whether it's work you can't do or money, you know things that come, it must happen a hundred times a day that something comes up that requires money that you don't have, right? That's the kind of thing you're talking about right? So, here's what doesn't make sense to me, yet. How come it's painful to hear [inaudible at 00:44:41] a hundred times when you know it's true? (pause)
 I don't think it's that far from your mind. It never seems that far from you. I don't think you walk around and have moments where you're like, "I have enough money and things are going great."
 So it's not just that, it's not having the money. It's sort of the whole package, not having the money, how work is going, what's the, worrying about the future or the despair about the future is more accurate. And like that's what gets kind of...?
 I see. So there's not having enough money, but there's like the 500 implications of that.
 Which matters, who's in the house, who's in the apartment, losing more business, you know the care breaking down, the dog breaking down, all sorts of things. [00:46:34]
 And (long pause), and (pause)...
 Well a big part of it is that if you don't have yourself back on, I mean I, I, look, I'm not saying you do have much to fall back on, you don't. I'm not disagreeing with you about that. But, I think a big piece of that that gets left out is also the way that you don't have yourself to fall back on either. That your capacities are so dished, like, you know, like that. You're a very smart guy, you like, I think when you're doing better you can be pretty good at making things happen business wise. I mean in addition to being smart, you're good at that and also, like socially, building things up socially. I don't think you can make use of any of that because of your state of mind. I think, it seems to me like that's something, you know, we can't fix or really work on the real estate market. You know what I mean? Or what Jess's going to do. But, (pause) it does seem to me that the thing we can do about being able to make use of your own like package that, you know, [inaudible at 00:48:57] or may not, I think they'll help, but I think it's a big part of the problem that we don't have to look at so much. I mean it's not like you're making a secret of it, I mean, like you just said. You know, I'll go home instead of work at some point it will be too much and I'll probably stop. But, I, probably there's more to understand about that in a way that would be helpful. (long pause)
 [inaudible] A different time on Friday right?
 Yeah.
[End of TRANSCRIPT]
 Right. End of July I would think, yeah.
 That you have to make it till then.
 You mean as opposed to feeling like you're pulling somebody else out of their [orbit]?
[05:07.8]
 Uh huh. (pause) Yeah, I mean, whatever it is that's causing you to feel so bad, clearly your sort of guilt about feeling like a burden is really pretty central. I mean, I guess —(pause) Two of the things that seem to be so far (inaudible at 07:37.5) so important are the extent to which you feel like you're doing something constructive or contributing, which has been basically doing academic work in the recent phase, and how guilty you're feeling about burdening other people.
[08:01.1]
Like, those are the things that, more than anything else, can really weigh on you. I imagine as much as you want his help, that you are a little afraid of it because you know you can feel so bad when you — I imagine for you it can feel like running up a bill.
[09:01.3]
 Sort of like a bill to be paid on Judgment Day or something like that.
[09:59.3]
 Yeah. No, I didn't mean —
 — in a sense where you are being judged in some way.
 I imagine it makes you feel less together (inaudible at 13:32.1) maybe there's that, but more the lack of coordination or whatever.
[13:40.6]
 I think something may have just happened there. I'm not sure, but let me bring it up. I think you started intending to say something like, a little more mixed about James or how he's not perfect, kind of. And then I think you went into feeling bad for him because of how when he feels he's not been perfect, it really bothers him.
 Well, there's partly that, but partly that you started out seeming to want to a little bit. Criticize is stronger than it seemed to me. It's more like, humanize might be closer. I think you were —
[17:48.3]
 I wonder if you started in that direction and then felt a little bad. It's not as though —
 Okay.
 Sure.
[18:48.8]
 But it wasn't so much what happened here.
 I see.
 Yeah.
[19:42.8]
 Well, I guess it sounds like it sort of stirs up this conflict for you between wanting, and at times, feeling like you need to depend on him. And I think probably the guilt that results from that, and maybe partly just sort of some shame by not being independent.
 I'm sorry. What's the problem with that?
 I can imagine there are different ones. I don't know which ones you had in mind.
 Which is harder to be with him there?
 For fear of bringing him down, or because you wanted to be able to cut yourself?
[25:04.8]
 Why not?
 Yeah, I guess what you've been talking about is the mixed feelings you have about the way you're having to put yourself in his hands. And it sounds as though one of the more intense ways of doing that would be to break down in front of him.
[27:11.3]
 Yeah, I'm actually not convinced in a way that you're working any less hard in taking care of him than he is working at taking care of you. I understand —
 I think probably in some fundamental way, nobody's help has really been good enough. I don't mean that people haven't been, as she was, good at what they do or good in the ways they were trying to help you, most especially James.
 Correct. I think that may be true in principle, but I'm more concerned with the way that among other things, which we've been talking about, it's usually something of a disappointment or [evokes] some frustration or something like that, from you. Which you probably pretty quickly —
[32:16.9]
 Someone's effort to be there for you.
 I want to be very clear that I'm clear that if you're doing the Zagat rating of it, it could be five stars, but there's some way in which it really doesn't feel like enough. And probably — it's not quite the word I want — in some more primitive sense, really feels like it could be more or should be more, even if you know in your head that might not be possible.
 Which I guess is another way of saying that in [some part of you], you are probably pretty disappointed with everybody. Again, as much as from another vantage point, you are as appreciative and as thankful as you could possibly be.
 If we pretended you were going to look at the disappointment —
 Okay. What would you find?
 If somebody has to be at fault, anyway.
 If somebody has to be at fault, anyway.
 [That's sort of a problem].
 And was there a bit of that at the center?
[37:43.7]
 If there hadn't been a way to get the information to move forward on the lead?
 Well, one reason I guess I find that interesting is that it's almost like they have to meet that objective criteria because, I guess, it just sometimes doesn't work that way. If you're upset with somebody or disappointed with them, you are and you may feel it's fair or not fair, or have to sort out whether you think it's fair, or why you're even upset or disappointed with them in the first place. But I guess the way you put it seems to me, in a sense, putting the cart before the horse, like I can only be upset with them if I've decided that —
 Which I'm not interested in saying that's a mistake, but more like it seems to suggest, to me anyway, this is something you're sort of guarded about.
[40:50.3]
 So you're close enough and I would imagine secure enough in that way.
 [It doesn't sound so small to me].
 We should stop for now. But we'll talk more on Wednesday.
 Hi.  I've got some information about you and ahh, I want you to—before I give you an idea of what I have gleaned from reading the information, I get some idea from you as to what you would think would be like one or two main issues that you want to work on.  Anything that stands out in your mind?
 Okay.  You wanna… (crosstalk)
 … improve your relationship with the husband and children.
 That's one of the goals.  Great.  Okay.  What?  Anything else?
 Resolve issues.  You are referring to the fact that at the moment he's very ill.  You mean that before he dies you want to kind of make peace?  So what does "resolve issues" mean there?
 I see.  I see.  Okay.  Okay.  Those seem to me very sensible goals.  I want to share a couple of impressions I got upon reading the material I was given and you can tell me how you react to this.  The one impression I caught was that you seem to have a lot of regrets from the past things you didn't do, that you wished were different that come what—different way.  And immediately, my reaction to that is that the past is over.  Having regrets doesn't do anything.  What we want to do is learn from it.  And that's why I was glad to hear you say, "I want to improve the relationship with my husband and children," because that's now.  Here and now and in the future.  So that's action.  So that's sound good.  So when I say, "Gee, I'd like to see you just drop the regrets 'cause that's a waste of time."  How do you react to that statement?
 Drop the regrets.
 I may have got the wrong impression or something like, "Gee, I regret that I wasn't there more for my kids and I regret that I don't have as good a relationship with them as my husband does and I regret that I wasn't perhaps, as close with my husband as other couples," or that kind of a thing.  So that's why I used "regret".  But that maybe the wrong word, you think?
 But now and into the future, it can be better, you said that ten years from now you're not gonna say, "Gee, I feel badly that as of 1996, I didn't.  Now is the time to take action."
 Okay.  That, of course, is positive and constructive and that's, that's something we want  to achieve.  See, what I'm doing now is, I'm saying we want to be sure that we have the same goals in mind.  There's no point in me having your goal, that's not your goal?
 So we have to agree that's a goal we wanna work towards that… (crosstalk)
 … okay?  That was the one thing. (sighs)  And the other, again, the impression I got from reading this.  You must correct me if I'm wrong.
 Was that in many situations, you are not as assertive as I think you need to be that you kind of don't take action.  You're sort of hanging back a bit and I could talk about your Dad which is so important.  "I want to get some closure" is what it sounded like and I would say, "Okay, go for it."  Let's, let's—If necessary, we can rehearse you.  We can role play.  There are all kinds of things we can do that will guide your interactions and say you'd become the kind of person who goes for what she wants.  You don't sit on the sidelines.  Would that be right to say that to some extent you've kind of held back?  You've been too passive in some ways or not?  How do you see that?
 Oh, no, no, no.  Never in every.  Just in some important ones.
 Okay.
 Okay… (crosstalk)
 I guess, I'm saying—I'm sorry… (crosstalk)
 Uh-huh.  But people in general.
 But you'd like to be or that's something you're comfortable with?  'Cause nobody says you have to be if you don't want to be?
 Well, that's a very good attitude.  Experiment 'til you try things on for size.  Then make of this a shot.  "Let me try this out.  See if I like it or if I don't like it.  If I like it, great.  If I don't, okay, I can always retreat back to what I wanna be."  So some experimentation.  But now, let me ask you another question.  As I was scanning through the material, one thing that was absent was, well, I quote, "The sensory modality."  Now that means, you know, most of the joys in life come through what we see, smell, taste, feel and hear. (sighs)
 And I have no idea of what you are like in that regard.  What you would like to see and to smell, taste, feel and hear.  You know, what kind of a, a sensory being you are.  Can you just fill me in on that?  It's like saying, "What are the things you like in that area?"
 To see.  Let's tackle that.
 Generally and specifically.
 Other people laughing?
 Uh-huh.
 Oh, you are a photographer, right?
 So you're really, okay.
 But you listen to a lot… (crosstalk)
 … of music?
 You listen to a lot of music?
 Okay.
 Got pets?
 Do you have pets?
 What have you got?
 Uh-huh.
 Any special foods and things that you like?
 What any… spicy? 
 Yeah.  And, and what negative sensations, you know, I'm thinking of like any tension, any kind of pains and so forth, aches and then negative plan?
 Now what happens when you come across that?  You see, what I'm looking for here, we come back to this assertiveness thing again.  Somebody's being honory (ph) or really nasty, putting somebody down, loud.  What, what's your typical response in that situation?  I'd like you shrink away from it or might you go ride in and say, "Hey, knock that off!"
 Let's take it that you know them first.
 Uh-huh.
 Said you sound like you are a person who values honesty and compassion, sincerity and decency.  This seems to be very high up on your list of values.
 And when that doesn't come about, you say, "I'm gonna distance myself.  Who needs this."  Right?
 Okay.  That ties into the assertiveness.  What are the—I have a quick question: I've noticed that you do a lot of exercise, they say, is that right?
 Alright, tell me about that what you do?  You, you walk in the park and what else?
 Looking for a perfect gym.  Okay.
 What are the senses that we stop from them, that feels good, I guess.
 And are you good with your body in general?  Do you eat sensibly… (crosstalk)
 … rest… (crosstalk)
 Okay.  So you do take care of yourself?
 Okay.  So, I get a sort of a general flavor.  You've said a little about you in some of these areas.  Now, we come back to this thing about—okay, you want to have a better relationship with husband and the children… (crosstalk)
 … now and into the future.  Said that ten years and now you can look back and say, "Boy, this was a great decade!  I mean, we really are getting on fabulously."  That's, that's a go?
 And my belief is, by the way, it's in your hands.  See, I really think that we are the architects of our lives, far more than most people realize.  That, that this is something we can do.
 And, and on how are we going to do it is that we have to have a design.  And the whole idea of the therapy is two heads are better than one.  And either, that we put our heads together and we plan, it's gonna come out better than if one doesn't on one side.  That's the whole idea behind it.
 Are you comfortable on that motion?
 Okay.  So, let's start with perhaps, husband first.  If you can tell me some of the negatives and then we can plan.  Well, let's see.  What can we do to improve that?  Like, like what's going on now in that relationship?
 I guess, the… (crosstalk)
 … the $64,000 question, I-I was talking earlier about, you know, we take action.  So here you are saying, "You know what, I'd like my husband and I to talk, communicate, interact.  We don't do it.  We don't do it."  That means Linda is also not doing something.  So what would happen if you said, "We are gonna talk"?  So, when you go home this evening, you say to your husband, "Honey, one of the things I want us to do: step one is I really want us to sit down and talk more; I want us to schedule just, oh, ten minutes after dinner every night, that's all.  Just ten minutes, so we can just talk and catch up and share."  What's he likely to say?
 That, that could be the response?
 Okay.  I want you to just sort of role play that for a bit.  I'm getting to be you, of course, I wanna just see something.  You see, you try and be as mis-accurate as you can.  Say, he's just sick, come to it a little bit later.  Okay.
 Your husband.  Okay.
 Yes.
 And you—I'm Linda and you've just said to me "Come to it a little bit later, 'cause there's something I wanna do."  I'm Linda.  "Honey, I, I cannot get across to you but this is very important.  This is not just some little idle thing, but I feel very strongly that one of the things I would like is for us to be able to talk and communicate and be closer.  This is something that is very important."
 "Well, I'll tell you what I'd like to know.  For example, I'd like to know just a simple thing like, what did you do today?  If we can just talk about that."
 "Well, you see what's happening?" What's your husband name?
 "Ron, here's what's happening right now.  You think that I'm just being some pesky female who's bugging you.  Things are more important than this.  And I'm picking that up as, 'I've got more important things, do things that are more important than what you want and what you feel and what our marriage is,' and I think you mustn't underestimate that.  This is very important.  I'm really talking about something for both of us in the future.  We will be closer.  We'll be having a better relationship and this is the start.  And ah, so let's not (inaudible 00:16:24).  I think if you give me the next two hours, I could see you say, 'Gee, I've got these things.  I want ten minutes.'  You think you can spare ten minutes?"
 "You think we have a good, close relationship that we communicate enough, that we share enough that we talk ?  You're quite happy at that level?"
 (sighs) "Well, that makes me very sad, you see, because then I was hoping you would say, 'I'm, I'm with you, Linda.  I, I would like to be closer.  I agree with you, but I'm a little unhappy to hear you say 'I'm fine.  I don't need to talk anymore than we do.  I don't need to be any closer than we are.  You have a problem.  Go solve your problem.'  Whereas, the problem is our relationship I cannot solve it without your help.  So maybe what you might do than just humor me and, and let's see if that'll help me solve the problem, you see."
 "If I was around more often.  That's important.  And I, I want to respect that.  I think, I have in the past, we tend to go our separate ways.  I've been doing my thing.  You've been in you're thing.  And I don't think that that's healthy for the rest of our life.  You know, the kids are gonna be leaving home already one's in college and ah, yes, I want to be around more.  I mean, is this something that's honest, you'd like me to be around more so we could talk and share?"
 "Okay.  I'm, I'm going to make a commitment to you.  And that is, I am going to be around more. 
 "I'm sincere about that, Ron."
 Oh, now you're talking—we're out of role.  Okay.  That, that's a... (crosstalk)
 Oh, no, no, no.  Being around more doesn't mean that you now abandon everything and then all or non-way.  Now all of a sudden, you are nothing but a, a homemaker, housewife who's buried in the walls and just sitting and waiting for great guard run to descend upon her.  Now, we're talking about "being around more."  And, and what has "more" mean?  And how a more a day, half an hour more but more, this can be so that we have some leverage.  I mean, does that, does that feel okay?
 Okay.  Okay.
 And the kids care about you or that he cares about the kids?  How much do you think... (crosstalk)
 ... Oh, you wanted the kids care about you?
 Okay.
 Okay, okay.
 Yes, because up until now there seems to be like a parallelism.  You are here and some are—he and the kids are there.  And this, there's not this that's going on.
 And so your question at the moment is even more important, "Do they care about me?  How much do my kids care about me?  How much does my husband care?"  Right?  This seems... (crosstalk)
 ... to be the question.
 And do you have any guess, I mean, if we had a psychic x-ray and we could zoom in and have a look, what would we see, would we see, or that don't really care about you?  Or they care very little?  Or, hey, you know what, they care a whole heck of a lot?  What do you think you'll see?
 And what is it they do? What, what do you think is... (crosstalk)
 Would you like to?  I mean, would you like to go fishing or something?
 Uh-huh.  Okay.  So that's, that's something to think about.  I just got a thought into my head.  And that was like let's say I had your, your kids.  And yeah, and I said to them, ahh, "What, what do you think about your mother?"  I mean, let's, let's get this clear.  I mean, what's going on here?  Would they say something like, "Oh, we'd love to have more to do with her, but she's just not interested," I'm sort of guessing that might be an answer.  "Sure, we'd love to have Mom around more.  But we'd never think of asking her because we know she's gonna say, 'No.'" Or, or what would they say to that?  What do you think?
 No?
 What would they say?  "We don't want her"?
 Okay.
 Well, it sounds like, well, "She's not really interested in, in what we are doing.  She just won't get interest in that."  You see, that's what it sounds like.  But, but, let me tell you what this leads to, immediately, whatever be possible, I like to have people present instead of guessing.  So my question to you is what would happen if we decided to schedule on appointment, that I would meet with you and Ron and the two boys?  And the five of us would talk about these issues.
 Okay.
 Why doesn't he know?  What would his attitude be if he knew?
 Okay.  And, and if you said, "Obviously, there's something wrong.  Why wouldn't I be doing that, Ron?  I feel unhappy.  I, I feel I want closeness.  I am sad about certain things in the past.  I don't want to repeat them in the future.  I want a much closer bond with you and the kids that I've never enjoyed.  That's why I'm in therapy.  And the therapist here would like to see us all that he can help us best to us all.  Not that he wanted you to keep coming every single week, but if he could meet with you and the boys just once and twice, and me, that might help things."
 Uh-huh.
 I'm interested.  Okay, you used the word "interested."  See?   Could—I'm saying how could they care less if they're interested?  It, it's a matter here that, you know, when I come back to this question or for this kind of assertiveness when you are entitled to make certain requests.  You as a woman, as a mother, as a wife, as a human being, are entitled to say, "Look, I'm asking you to do me a favor.  I, I—this is important to me and you're being there might be helpful to me.  And I'm not asking you to come and do this every single week of your life."  You see?  That you are entitled to make that request as a person... (crosstalk)
 ... and as, Oh, they wouldn't be interested.  Okay.  Too bad.  They can't do something for their Mom.  But when the children, "Send a fish if they come to see my shrink," you see.
 (laughs)
 Yeah.  Why not?  It's a change, change of scenery.
 (laughs) Bring the shrink, all of us fishing.  We can all talk about this, you know, as well.  I mean, these are all kinds of options, you see.  But I'm mean, (laughs) I'm serious in the sense that they think that I'm picking up here, unless I'm misreading this.  This is kind of a reticence.  How nice if they came and said, "You know, Mom, why don't we all go and see a therapist so that we can get some closure?  You know, we are going to leave you the emptiness then the things happened to be as good, so let's all go."  You're so bravo, great idea.  That's still gonna happen.  So you again take action.  See?  A, a theme that I'm, I'm getting to with you is the same.  I want to see you be in the driver's seat.  If you think and if you'd like, look, I, I don't know about you, of course, my belief is that it would be helpful.  If I had Ron and the boys in here with you, I believe that I could get things going, that would get some answers, we get some closure and then that would speed things up enormously towards the goal of the closeness that you spoke about husband and children, even as kids are growing up. (murmurs) Now, that would make things better.  And I'm saying, if you agree with me, if you can see the logic, let's go for it.
 Okay.
 Which I mean, would you be willing to say to Ron, "Ron, I wanna share something with you.  I've been to a therapist, had a couple of sessions.  And the reason I've gone is I just feel very unhappy about all the things that I've been feeling depressed lately, and I know you think there's no problem and it's silly ah, and when the therapist said that he'd like you and the boys to come along for a couple of sessions, I said you wouldn't come.  They wouldn't be interested and, and the therapist said, 'I think that would be very helpful to you' and he said to me that I'm entitled to ask this of you, it's not asking too much and it could be very useful, ahh, so how about it Ron?  I mean, would you be willing to give that a shot?"
 Okay.  I mean, 'cause I think that would be useful and it'll go places.  Let me—we can talk about it again a little bit later.  I-I'm still just trying to get a kind of an overview of what you and I can do together that would achieve the goal that we set out to achieve—want to achieve here, okay? (sighs)  I have another question, just how depressed are you?  Uhmm, one of the things that we could do is to give you a, a depression inventory and get a measure of, of, of course—one of the things that came up that you feel kind of sad, and, and got depressed.  Is that true?
 Some kind of blah lots of the time, is it?
 Any problem sleeping?  Do you sleep okay?
 Right.  That was quite a nightmare.
 And your appetite is okay?
 The weight, is your weight constant to all?
 Too heavy?  You wanna loose weight?
 Really?
 That's why you exercise. (laughs)
 I see.  Uhmmm, is there anytime of day that you feel worse in other times?  Is there any kind of a pattern like, uhhm, worse in the night, so worse in the morning to (inaudible 00:29:54)?
 You feel worse?
 Any idea why that might be?
 Okay.  I would just make a comment about that.  Uhmm, we often do see these things and we imagine that everything's so rosy, the grass is greener.  Just look at this couple working together in the garden, look at this couple driving the car, etc.  Now, I've got a special microphone concealed.  And you hear a hum-ding knockdown argument going on in this couple that you, "Boy, I really envy them."  And we tune in to this one, "Ah boy, this is incredible."  What you see, you'll be amazed, how often things look so wonderful... (crosstalk)
 ... but they're not. Ahh just, just remember that the next time you think that it may not be what you think it is.
 Make a list not wish.  Let's get it.  So I wanna ask you the question, you say to Ron, "Ron, you know what?  I'd like us to take a walk together.  I'm sick of walking on my own.  I would like my husband's company.  It's good for you.  It's good for me."  That's what you gonna say.
 Yeah.
 Then what happened?
 Interesting.  It just sort of, of a flash which maybe irrelevant.  But I thought, gee, what if you had a girl and a boy?
 What if you had two girls?  I wonder if it would be different, you see.  But however, it seems as though, that there was this drifting apart.  And that's enough with that.  You're saying, "Let's not—start getting together."  And right now, Ron is, you say, used to doing that.  Then we're gonna start hauling him in for his own good.  Because I think he's gonna find that if you get back to doing things together, walking together, communicating, etc., he's gonna be happier.  He's gonna turn around and say to you, "I'm a lot happier."
 But that's why I'd like to get him in, you see.  I'd like to find out what he would really say if I start putting things to him.  I'd be surprised if he said to me, "Hey, Man, I'm, I'm pretty happy.  I don't want anything to change.  I want things going just the way they are.  I'm perfectly content."  I'd be very surprised.  I mean, it's possible, but I think it's unlikely.  But so that's why I keep coming back, I'd like Ron in here.  You see, I more and more want this SOB in here so I could really get to the nitty-gritty with him.  Uhmm, okay.  So, so we want more of this togetherness and we want you to again be more active in initiating it.  And the depression side that we were talking about feeling blunt, feeling bad in the evenings —of course, you begin to make comparisons —would go if you were walking with the guy.  I mean, right away this is gonna be a lot better.  Uhhm, because one of the thoughts I had was this, another problem I saw you mention, that you tend to obsess a lot.  You tend to go over things a lot in your mind, is that right?
 Uhmm, whether or not this is necessary, I'm not sure, but there are a lot of therapists who feel that, like Prozac can help that heck of a lot.  That if somebody's on Prozac while working on these things, that it gives a bit energy and the kind of control that they get things together and then they come off of the Prozac slowly.  I don't know how you feel about medication and the pros, cons, prejudices.
 So you're not happy of the idea of something like Prozac?
 Oh, okay.
 You, you say you would not take it?
 Okay.  Well, I mean, I don't see that this is necessary.  Some people, it's really necessary.  It's what some people—it's like saying they're diabetic, but they won't take insulin.  You know, they have their choice.  But in your case, I mean, that's an option.  I, we, we, we can drop that.  Uhm, I-I, I'm back to this theme about getting this togetherness going on the family for...  Switching not to far, tell me now that, again, what it is you want to accomplish?
 Right.
 You almost sensed that you were saying, "Somehow I should have feelings."
 Uh-huh.
 Such a mixed bag, of course, as always, these positives and negatives.  It sounds to me, from your description you, you were telling me earlier on how important it is for you to be with people who are caring and compassionate and sincere and sensitive.  And the people are not that way, you distance yourself from.  It sounds as they—this man were not your father, you would have absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with him.
 And with that sort of a person.  But because he is your biological father, there's a certain obligation and you are kind enough to do what has to be done.  That for you to have feelings wouldn't make much sense to me.  Of course, where, where are the feelings to come from?  The feelings would come from the acts of kindness and caring, compassion.  If they were not there, what should you feel?  But you are, nevertheless, kind enough to do the decent thing.  So, so that's one thing.  But how do you feel about that?  What I've just said?
 And also that you don't have to feel anything and to make sense that you would distant yourself if you want your father?
 Okay.  (deep breaths) See, that line that really got you upset was "Where the hell were you when I needed you?"  (Silent) And then you gave the answer which was, "Hey, we kinda do the best we can and ahh, I guess the guy had other priorities," etc., so you now want to say to him, "Look I, I'm grateful to you for keeping the roof over my head," so to speak, ah, "But ah, I sure as heck wasted you were the man who'd be more caring, kind and compassionate to me and ahh, and to my late mother."  That seems to be what you wanna say to the guy?
 Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.
 So you just got he's come out this?
 See?  'Cause I'm not sure what it is that would be satisfying to you.  'Cause earlier it sounded as if you were gonna say to him, "Look, where the hell were you when I needed you?  You were a lousy father, etc. etc., etc.," and I (inaudible 00:41:31) to do that.  And I understand that.  I mean, what, what it's gonna mean to you?.  And on the other hand, you want to also say, "You know, there was some good things about you.  You know, you were not totally bad.  You were an SOB (inaudible 00:41:48) a hundred percent, maybe 90 percent.  And, and I'm studying out (inaudible 00:41:53) achieve well.  What's that gonna achieve really the thing that I would want to see you inside having worked it through, whether you say, whether you don't say.  It's like you know where it stands.  And, and that's again the past and the heck with it.  You—But one of the thoughts I had was that there's a certain distance that's come between you and the men in your life.  Starting with your father who inflicted that upon you, and then followed by Ron and the kids, where there's that, that distance.  And again, I've come to the present and the future.  We don't want that to be the story of your life.  We don't want you to be a woman in her 80's and says, "Boy, I never was close, really close with any guy.  Not with my husband or my kids."  We want you to say, "I have some distance to begin with, but boy, were we close over the last next (ph) years."  You see?  And that's wonderful.  And that's in your hands and that's what we have to work for.
 If I have the magic psychic x-ray again and I could zoom in with their telemetry device into their souls and get a print out and look at it and say to you, "Gee, I have a bad news.  Looks to me as that they don't give a damn about you."  It's all gonna be one-sided.  I'd say, "Forget about it.  If that's the case, "Split, man.  You're young and you're attractive.  There are other guys out there.  Forget about it.  Get divorce."  You see.  On the other hand of the print out showed me, you initiate because you are the one that's somewhat more sensitive and caring.  You initiate and you'll get back in space.  Go for it.  We'll be done, know the answer.  That's why I need them in here.  But my guess is, from the little that I've heard, that it'll work.  That's my guess.  And if it doesn't work, "Hey, we have to cut bait."  There's the fishing analogy.  But we come back to this thing about, you gonna do it all.  It's not like, it's all gonna be you riding up the stream and the others would be your reluctant passengers.  Now, you're gonna start the process.  And they're out and going to start the pitchin'.  Not all up to you. (silent)   How do you feel about that?.
 But you see, the point I'm making here is a point again, that I've said in the beginning.  We are in control.  We choose many of the things that happen.  And that, and we can do it.  And yes, that's the woman that says, "This is what I want.  This is one of my objectives."  And I'd say, "Great.  Sounds like a great objective."  Now, start it.  How are we gonna get it going?  How are we gonna start?  And you say, "Do I have to start it?"  And I'm saying, "Yeah.  You start it.  'Cause the way the cookie crumbled, they at this point are out there.  Probably, not even realizing what they're missing.  Okay?  So you are the initiator.  Great, a day better than start playing ball.  I had—we have to see to .  Now, what I'm curious about is, is how you are responding to this, because, you see, I started to get a feeling as that, "Boy, I'm really, I'm really rowing now.  I'm, I'm pushing you.  I, I've got you in my boat and I'm rowing furiously, saying, 'This is where we've got to go,'  I'm not sure if I've got a reluctant passenger or, or if I've got a true ally here."
 Uh-huh.
 We don't know.  But you know, I've seen many instances of this kind.  Well, I've had a family coming, for example, and the kids had said, "Mama, I never knew you cared?  I, I'm really glad to hear that you want that because this is what we want, too."  And we just kept doing.  I think was, you seemed to be content as far as we could tell and we were.  But that's great.  It may not work the way we think it may, but by the way, my thinking is that you have a 19-year old and a 17-year old.  So, they're ready to stop moving on that you and Ron, are far more significant in having a good closeness.  And, and the kids thing will follow.  But then you agree with me that maybe you and Ron are the pivotal point?
 Right.  Right.  So you know what I'm thinking?  That instead of involving the kids right now, if we could at least involve Ron in a couple of sessions, you know, and get him in and see where he's at.  Then we can play our cards from there.
 You would be willing?
 Okay.
 Now, what I was asking you about, in terms of the way you and I work together.  I mean, this is our second session, right?
 And it's too kind of early, and the very important thing in therapy is that the therapist and the client really are on the same team.  You know, that, that there is trust and, and the sense that you have is that I genuinely have your best interest at heart and I want the best for you and that I'll do everything in my professional capacity to aid in the bet.  You need to feel that.  If you don't feel that way then, then one would say, "Gee, it's not gonna work well."  See, I say I, I wasn't sure 'cause I, I've been coming on pretty strong in this issue.  It's my feeling.
 And, and you might just be being polite with me and say, "Boy, I wanna get the hell out of here and go see another therapist."  You see, I don't know how hard it stands.  I need you to be honest with me.  How, how do you find this?
 You had thought about seeing another therapist?
 (laughs) And how are the other therapists be different?
 I see.  Okay.  I don't want you to do it.  I want us to do it.  See, I wanna be on your team…  (crosstalk).
 I hope you're willing to do that.  Yes. (laughs)  I mean, if, if he is being absolutely stupid and pig-headed, I'm, I'm happy to hop into my car and ahh, arrive and say, "Let me introduce myself to you.  You SOB," You know, quite like that.  You know, and have him come on in.  Sure.  I mean, ahh, that's why I will say anything with him in my professional power.  Anything that is legal, moral and ethical, I'll do it.  I will not get the Mafia hit man to, to take him out to see me. (laughs)  So I don't want you to feel that I'm, I'm suddenly putting everything on you.  But I am saying, I think that you need to initiate.  Yeah.  Given the fact that you have these admirable feelings.  The other thing that, the reason I'm doing this is, you know, correct me if I'm wrong, my sense of you is that you've got some very good strengths and that you are bright and that you've got a lot going for you.  I wouldn't say this if I'm treating another person whom I see, "Oh boy, this person is a half a basket case or something."  I don't normally suggest this.  But I, I don't see you in that light.  Am I wrong? 
 Okay.  So the sense was, I think this woman can do this. So let's go for it.
 Okay.
 Now you do?
 Say, if you went to Ron and you said to Ron what I'm suggesting and he'd say to you, "Oh, leave me alone with this rubbish.  I mean, I'm not gonna go near any therapist.  You're crazy.  You go."  I mean, forget it.  The ultimate rejection, "Forget it."  You wouldn't feel rejected?  You can handle that?
 What would happen?
 Okay. (coughs)  But you wouldn't be devastated?
 Yeah?  Okay.  If that's what'll happen.  Well, by the way, I think that before you ask him, I want us to rehearse the way it will be presented.  You see, 'cause I think it's important that you would say to him, "This is something that's very important to me.  And in a marriage, what's important to one partner is important to the other.  Whether it is or not, it is important.  Of course, we are in the same boat.  So I'm hoping that you will see the wisdom of, of doing this."  And, and now you present it that way.
 I want to see a husband who absolutely refused to coming.  And the wife came back and we put our heads together.  What should we do?  And we act with it.  I called him and I said, "I meet with your wife, I understand that she'd mentioned this to you."  I said to him, "You know, frankly, I'm, I'm very worried."  And I hanged up.  Now my reasoning went as follows:  If he loves her, he's gonna be concerned.  "What, what's this guy talking about?"  If he hates her, he's gonna be curious.  "What's the good news? (laughs)  Let me go and find out."  You see?  And the guy called me back and he said,  "Well, I mean, you can't just leave me hanging."  I said, "Well, let, let's have an appointment.  We can talk about it."  And he came in.  And, and that's why I hooked him in.  You see?  Once, once I've got him, then I start reading him in like, like marlin fish, you see?  But your point that—I, I don't think I've ever actually gone to the house.  But I'd be willing to do that.  If I, if I encounter somebody who's being really pig-headed.
 What if it's necessary, whatever trick we, we can try that.  There are plenty of tricks in the tray, you know.  But okay, so what I'm glad about is we're, we're of the same mind as like, okay, our next step is to get Ron in, by hook or by crook. (laughs)  And then see whether if he takes us.  And then the next step after that is to see—now, do we want to involve the boys?  What do we learn from Ron?  How are things going?  And we can talk about—I'm still not sure about the thing with your Dad that maybe we could look at that as well in, in another session a bit more clearly.  The feeling I got from you was, it's always stand you need to come to terms with the inside.  But what you say or don't say to him, at this point, doesn't seem as relevant as you're just coming to terms of what's inside by saying, "Okay, he was an SOB.  I did the best I could and I do what I have to do, but I don't have to feel anything in particular."
 No, that, that's the kind of thing if you feel that way.
 Could be.  He's like (inaudible 00:56:04:02) (crosstalk)
 You maybe right.  You maybe right.  Okay, so now, before we end our session today, can, can I be sure of one thing: that you are going to go home, you're gonna say to Ron, "By the way, I've had a couple of sessions with this therapist and uhm, one of the things I'm very interested in is really making sure that you and I have a better relationship, re-catching some of the things we used to have.  And this is very important to me.  And ah, even if it's not important to you, I'd like you to do me a favor and just ah, come and meet with this guy who said he really felt that he would need your inputs…" by the way, it's very useful.  Instead of making him feel that we're holing him in because he's some kind of a nutcase, "The therapist said he needs your side of the story.  If he's to help me, he needs your help.  You see, I'm asking him to help me."  And that, that might be better for his male ego, if you would put it that way… (crosstalk)
  "And so he asked if we could schedule an appointment for the two of us to come in."  Or maybe, for that, if even Ron if wants to come in on his own, I could meet with him man to man and kinda get, get his side of the story, if you, if he preferred that.  But one way or the other, I want him in here, you see.
 No, but I can learn. (laughs)
 There you go.
 Okay.  Good.  So I'm trying to think what we should do.  I think what we should do is, I'll send a should-be (ph) schedule, an actual appointment or do we wanna wait for you to talk to him, so we know his time schedule so we can do something which is convenient to him and you?
 Okay.  So I will then ah, wait for further instructions.  Okay?
 You feel I care about that?  Are you, are you trying to do that?  Is it alright?
 Okay.  To be continued.
 Good.
 Do you think this is because you're feeling so far away from James on this?
 Maybe taking care of people is, for you, part of the way you love them.
 It feels kind of good to them and good about yourself.
 I expect that feels like a rejection to you.
 You mean getting caught?
 Like some random person? Somebody you know?
 They probably wouldn't even yell at you. People might walk by and smile. Sorry about that.
 Yes. [Having a good time.] (inaudible at 00:29:45) Exactly. 
 You are terrified of that?
 Wait, I'm sorry. I think you just made a slip which I don't generally make a fuss over, but I want to be sure I didn't just understand. You talked about his having trouble talking and you said about the ways that "I am a burden on me". I thought you were going to say you were a burden on him?
 Oh, yes you do.
 Maybe you're finding him incredibly difficult, hard to work with, and maybe in that sense kind of stubborn, kind of a pain.
 Stubborn for the ways he won't lean on you or make use of you or let you take care of him or push back when he's upset with you or not take care of you when it feels too much for him sometimes?
 And being a pain in the way that he presents a lot of stuff as being about you and not about him?
 Which [ ] (overlapping voices at 00:40:07) 
 And I think you generally do, too.
 I think, and this may not be quite right, but I think you're trying to bring this up with him. When I stop and think about it, the call with him sounds a little like a set-up. If somebody had interviewed you the minute before you picked up the phone and asked, "How is he going to respond about the cat? How is he going to respond about you just being out getting trashed with your roommates? How is he going to respond about your roommate doing drugs?" you probably would have guessed. No? [00:41:43]
 Oh, okay. That's my mistake.
 All right. You were referring to how risk-averse he is and how cautious he is.
 I see. It sounds like I'm just really misunderstanding.
 Or maybe . . . (both laugh) . . . maybe some of it's his problem that he doesn't. [00:43:31]
 [ ] (crosstalk at 00:43:36) you're going to talk about is the part about how it's their problem. That may be overdoing it, but I'm thinking you want me to say it. You don't seem to have any concerns about mothering your roommates.
 And not scary. 
 Again, I'm sort of speculating here, but the reason you're not saying, "Oh, my God, what if they need me one night and it's a tough night for me and I'm upset and I can't be there for them," which I think is the sort of thing you're worried about with James. "Oh, my God, what if he needs me at some point and wants to lean on me and I can't do it right then." I'm not saying those are exactly the same but . . . We can stop for now. We can talk more about it tomorrow.
 Um, how are you?
 Okay, now let's belabor that. 
 I saw you on March 15th you were describing getting disoriented most mornings, your mood was low, you weren't essentially sad or anxious but you were frustrated with your cognitive problems, demoralized. Um, feeling like mostly a loner, appetite was super fine, your energy was okay. We didn't make any changes to the Paxil?
 Provigil, Ativan combination.
 Well, we haven't talked yet, but I'll take you're, uh, interest into consideration as we uh make our decisions here. Um in these two months, how has your mood been? 
 Unstable?
 Are you sad most of the time?
 So your mood's okay?
 Good.
 What's wrong with it then?
 Can't find words?
 So you have some cognitive problems?
 Well do you have memory problems?
 Is it about something specific?
 Well tell me a story.
 Tell me a story.
 That's not a story.
 I don't want a reason, I want a story. I was visiting my daughter, la, la, la, la, la.
 I was visiting my daughter.
 When was this?
 And you were visi, you stayed over?
 Okay so you got out there and started spending time with her?
 And you felt that she was being cool to you?
 Okay, then what happened?
 So she didn't really like the necklace?  
 Can she bring it back to the store and exchange?
 I thought your husband lost most of the money. It was after, it was after?
 [INAUDIBLE]. But what you're saying is that she's holding this against you and this many years, it's a long grudge?
 And so she was counting some money coming her way that's not coming her way and she's holding it against you?
 And that's why she's mad at you now?
 For losing money?
 What are you talking about? Are you talking about losing the money?
 Yeah.
 This was a while ago, this was years ago.
 Who would?
 He would take the business from you?
 Not buy it?
 What's confusing?
 So [NAME OTHER] was right though?
 It's like they're holding this against you.
 But it's a real tension.
 In the relationship. That's too bad.
 Strikes me as a little spoiled.
 On their part.
 I hate to but.
 Entitled.
 You know, I mean, it's not their money until you and your husband die.
 So it's really your money you lost.
 Luckily you're mature enough to not write things whether black or white kinda stroke and recognize that this may not be your son and daughter at their best.
 But it's an aspect of them that you can, that can be painful for you and yet it doesn't mean the relationship is over, it means that you just should probably avoid the subject with them and move on.
 There will be uncomfortable moments when things come up, but you just push it aside.
 Right, I would hope they would achieve that level of maturity also.
 Expenses are very high these days.
 Schools
 It really is. What kind of business were you in?
 Is that what [NAME OTHER]'s in?
 That's a good business.
 Who's [NAME OTHER]?
 Right.
 To do what? To do bills and stuff?
 What kind of bills?
 The vast majority can be done automatically.
 And still you're paying?
 Wow, pretty pricey.
 Let me ask my questions.
 Your appetite's okay?
 You're losing weight?
 You sleeping?
 What's your energy level like?
 Dragging. What time do you take it?
 How many hours sleep do you get?
 Could you take the Paxil earlier?
 Like around 8, 9 10?
 Try, try to. Just don't take a double dose, okay. Um no suicidal thinking?
 No panic attacks?
 You don't feel hopeless or helpless?
 Disorder, ADD, did you have it as a child though?
 Good, you were daydreaming in school?
 You couldn't stick with tasks?
 What were your grades like?
 Very low, they were lower than your intelligence?
 They could have been higher?
 Actually I diagnosed that before.
 That's right a lot of people do and they do beautifully with medication.  When I met you February 26th '03 we said that you're first diagnosis was major depression, second is panic attacks and third is ADD. You're a daydreamer, you didn't stick to things as a kid  -
 And the funny thing, got C's and D's in school.
 You know to diagnose ADD you actually have to have it as a child. You're not allowed to get the diagnosis first in adulthood, so it sounds like you have a legitimate diagnosis and that's probably 1 of the reasons we've always gravitated towards stimulants with you. Right? We've always had you on something that juiced up your energy?
 Those are the treatments for ADD. We've had you on Ritalin and we have you now on Provigil which is kind of a soft treatment for ADD.
 Fogginess?
 Problem is you have some other cognitive dysfunction now, you have some other reason for not thinking clearly, you're having memory problems that's interacting with the ADD.
 Right.
 Why are you afraid to take them in?
 How much could it be?
 Why is something like this overwhelming?
 Oh, yeah, yeah. 
 Why not?
 Oh good.
 [NAME OTHER], I don't remember what we talked, she seemed to care very much about you.
 Why? Just showing up?
 I don't know anything about it.
 I know it's Jewish.
 High level mysticism. I don't know what this modern Kabahlah religion, God only knows. Let's try to give you something to do, something to keep you busy, I don't know, well you won't find me doing that.  I'm just gonna try and keep your brain healthy the rest is your problem. Your life is your problem.
 Yeah but we have to make sure that your brain is working to the best that it can.
 Well you're a bit guilt driven. You have low self-esteem and you're.
 You know you're kind of a magnet for any.
 Um maybe some psychotherapy could help you with that.
 She probably could, she's kind of a wise, wise person to guide you on issues like that.
 As far as your mood disorder though and I have seen you quite anxious and depressed and overwhelmed, you're in decent shape.
 You're in decent shape and you're ADD, you know with the Provigil, you know the Provigil treats it some, it's decent. 
 Oh yeah so your distant memory is very good?
 It's probably the newer memories that are more problematic.
 You are?
 Doing what?
 That sounds like fun.
 We're not changing your Paxil dose.
 The Provigil dose we're not changing either.
 Right and that's, and for that reason also we're not putting you on a stronger stimulant cause those are more [INAUDIBLE]matic, those are more chance of giving you palpitations, or heart rate problems or blood pressure problems, so we're kind of stuck where we are.
 As long as your head stays above water. Things get worse, then we'll find something.
 Yeah. Well your spirit seems okay, I mean.
 That's right. This is normal thought. I can't tell you how true that is, you know people come in here, this is par for the course, money issues, family issues,  you shouldn't have lost the money daddy, this is normal [INAUDIBLE] 
 You know she's not gonna take the cutting off laying down, she'll fight it.
 Well and she's gonna play up depression and all that nonsense, I'd cut it off anyway. Well it's not just that, you want to encourage independence with her and she'll never ever find out if she's dependent on you.
 See you in a couple months, okay?
 Take care of yourself, bye, bye.
 Evening.
 Yeah?
 Last week at our session?
 Yeah.
 When you left, yeah.
 How so?
 Right. So last session was like what though? You were saying, "Last session was like that..." And I'm not sure what you meant.
 Of taking time off, yeah.
 Right.
 Sure, to get things, other things done.
 Right.
 Right.
 So how'd you, how did you feel walking away from the last session?
 Where do things stand, by the way, are you back at work or are you taking time off?
 You're a pain sometimes Greg.
 Are you at work or are you not at work?
 Okay.
 Okay. [0:06:00.4]
 Okay. Well, what I wanted to ask you is, I noticed when I said, 'how did you feel when you left last session?', you didn't answer that.
 So how do you feel about, how did you feel when you left here?
 Do you see how, what I'm saying though, that you didn't really answer that question?
 Okay.
 Right.
 So you were angry?
 So you felt angry when you left?
 Okay.
 Well, yeah.
 Yeah, that is important...
 ...but, first of all, it sounds like you were angry but maybe you were angry with me?
 Okay.
 So that's, okay, now I think we have a little bit of a home base to start with.
 Now, you felt angry. Did you feel anything else?
 In your anger?
 Okay. And now you're going, I bet you're going to tell me why you felt justified in your anger, because you actually thought of a lot of other things that you needed to do?
 Okay. Well, why did you feel angry with me then?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Oh, I don't doubt that.
 I believe that.
 Okay. So, you're angry with me.
 Did you know why I said that though?
 Because you weren't answering my question.
 I think your hearing's pretty good.
 I don't think it's anything wrong with your hearing.
 You hear it. Okay, that's not a possibility. You hear fine.
 Your hearing is excellent.
 Right.
 Right. I think, I think, well, I want to address what you said about criticism, because you, it sounds like you felt angry and you felt criticized, and I think you're right. I think I was being critical. I would say now if you, I was being critical of your saying that you might, that you were going to be spending three weeks working on something and that that wasn't perfectionism. And I was, you're right, I was challenging that, and you're right, that was criticism in a certain way. My sense though, Greg, is you want to have your cake and you want it, you want your cake and you want to eat it, too, or whatever the expression is I can't get right. (chuckling)
 Is that you're coming here and you're unhappy about things that are going on in your life. The fact that you can't get your life...
 ...straightened out and you can't get things done and you can't...you can't get your apartment straightened up, even though you've taken some good steps in that direction since like. But you can't get things done, you can't...you can't get furniture from your ex-wife's house, you can't get your life in order, you can't get things done. So you want to get that done and that causes you pain, and it causes, and there are also problems in your relationships, where you get hung up on things and that causes you pain as well. But you also want to hold onto this perfectionism, or what I see as perfection, that you want to hold onto it in certain areas. So you want it here but you don't want it there, and to me it sounds like...
 You want the perfectionism everywhere...
 ...but I'm not sure then that you're going to be able to change that stuff you're talking about wanting to change. That's my question, how can you expect to get all that stuff done you want to do...
 ...if you're not willing to give up some of that?
 Oh, nonsense! How so?
 How so?
 Right.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Right. I wonder if they're somehow related? Because I think part of what perfectionism is about, is having control over something, right? Having control over how something works out. That you have complete or as near complete control as possible.
 Okay? I mean you just sit here [overlapping voices at 0:14:23.5]... I mean I don't know what perfection is if it's not that.
 Okay. Okay. We could get at, we could get into a whole debate about what it is, but I see your point. There's a part of it that's about creativity, creating something that you want to create.
 Well...
 Right.
 Right. So that's true of the letters and that's true of...
 The letters [overlapping voices at 0:15:57.2]... as people?
 I'm not talking about in writing a poem now.
 I'm talking about your business...
 I don't know.
 Yeah, but I think, well, maybe if you're putting a lot of effort into creativity to (chuckling) writing letters to your lawyer, that's a whole other problem, cause they might...
 (chuckling) Because that's not a great way to...
 Right.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Greg, you are a pain in the ass! (hitting desk and chuckling)
 (still chuckling) You're a big pain in the ass. I feel like we can't talk about this because we end up sparring. Because it's, every time I try to say something, you have to justify it. That's your whole deal is you have to justify and explain everything, and then I feel that you're not [overlapping voices at 0:17:04.2]...
 Huh?
 I agree and that I've no problem with, you can disagree. But then I, and get angry with me, that's fine, I don't mind that. But where I think we get stuck is this justification like, and I don't know how to respond to it...you come up with like all the reasons why you have to do something. If that's how you really feel, then that's okay, then it's all right. If you really feel happy about the way you're doing things, that's okay. And I don't want [overlapping voices at 0:17:39.8]...
 ...and I don't want to change that. I, but what I'm not clear about is what you do want to change. [silence from 0:17:47.4 to 0:18:07.1]
 Greg?
 that sound like your goals for your life right now, and for those goals you could hire an employment agency and lawyers to accomplish...
 ...those goals, to find you a new job. What I'm asking is, were you sort of unhappy even before you had this current job and before you had these current legal...
 Even before you had this current job?
 Okay.
 Right. Okay. What I'm wondering then is, is there something about you, those are things in your life that you want to change. That you want to get a new job, you want to change the Worker's Comp., and those are fine goals. I'm not sure how much I can do about those things to get you...how much I can do to find you a new job or to get your case...settled or...get you more Workman's Comp. What I'm wondering though is, is there something about you that you want to change? Something about how you feel about yourself was there even before this job, even before this case, this Workman's Comp. situation, and I think it's all getting, you're really focused on those things now, but something was there even before that, right?
 So, what is it about you?
 I'm asking you a hard question. I'm asking you...
 ...to say...you can say you want to change your job, the job's the problem, the Workman's Comp. case is the problem, and they are obstacles, they are things in your life now. But you've had problems that have preceded those issues... [0:21:03.3]
 ...and I'm asking you the tough question, to say, what is it about yourself that you think you can change, that you have control over?
 What I'm saying is that you're talking about wanting to change external things in your life.
 I'm asking you about the internal Greg.
 What are the internal things that you want to change [overlapping voices at 0:21:40.9]...
 Okay.
 Souring relationships, souring?
 Do you mean souring...
 ...relationships?
 So, okay.
 Poorly.
 Okay.
 Okay. Now let me just stop you there. That could, a warped sense of yourself and you were talking about low self-esteem. How do you feel about yourself now?
 Yeah, this moment in general, how do you feel about yourself?
 Well, it's if, maybe it's a feeling though. It doesn't have, I'm not asking for specifics. I'm asking you how you feel about yourself, and that may be the first thing that came in, you feel like, terrible?
 Okay. But in general how do you feel about yourself?
 Lousy?
 Okay. You know, Greg, I think that's really where our work lies. I think that if we're, my sense is that, we need to focus a little bit more on that, on how lousy you feel about yourself, that I think that's still at the core here. That we've been dancing around it in other ways, focusing on these things which are not, and this is not meant to minimize how important these things are that are going on in your life, but I think in some ways we've been dancing around on the outside and missing what's at the center, which is you and how you feel, which is lousy about yourself. Like your sense, like you feel like a failure, low self-esteem, and I think we need to look at that and really address that.
 Well, I missed the last part of that.
 Right.
 Right. So in addition to all the other problems, you have to deal with feeling unhappy about how the therapy is going?
 Is that how you, have you heard that question, when I was asking you how you were feeling now was asked, did you hear it as sort of, how do you feel about the therapy?
 Yeah.
 Right. What's the relevance of what, how you feel?
 Right.
 Well, I guess your answer is, that it didn't help reduce the stress.
 Because instead of, because all it did was sort of make you feel like this isn't helping?
 Yeah.
 So then psychotherapy can come; become just another problem on the list.
 It can become another thing to think about and ruminate about...
 ..."Is it helpful or is it not helpful?"
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Absolutely. So, I hear what you're saying. So do you think then that all of that stuff, the worrying, the cogitating early in the morning, the worrying about everything, do you think that has anything to do with how you feel? With your emotions...
 ...with your emotional experience with your sense of yourself?
 Well, right, but...
 [inaudible at 0:32:09.4]...
 You used to do that, right? You used to do the psychoanalysis. You did a more intensive therapy...
 Twice a week.
 So it was more intensive, okay.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right, to go on. Now you have some outside activities [overlapping voices at 0:32:58.7]...
 ...now and you can't [slow it down.] (ph) But I think we also have, well, yeah, and I hear what you're saying...you don't want, but I wonder if this is the chance to balance that a little bit, too. You have the outside activity, so you have the grist for the mill out there. You have the sort of stuff to work on, real-life stuff, and you also have yourself, your internal states, to still work on.
 And your relationships.
 And that's what I'm, when you were saying souring relationships...curdling, right? You said curdling relationships, and you've talked about your son and your ex-wife and even your...
 ...and Lisa and the therapist before, having you were saying, feeling things, you were spinning your wheels. Maybe that one of the things that we'll have to deal with is the souring of this relationship...
 ...and understand why that happens with you. Why is it that you relationships with people go sour? What happens? And I wonder...
 ...if it's happening now? That our relationship, somehow you're feeling, right now, like it's more of a burden than a help, which I suspect is how you felt about other relationships in the past, too, or that they're not giving you much right now. But somehow it's souring. Let's just, I'll stick with this relationship now. Somehow it's not going right but...
 Sure.
 No.
 Yeah. Well, I think you're right. We can't artificially confine the therapy and say, "Well, we can only talk about one thing." Because I think that's sort of limits your, artificially limits your feeling...
 ...whatever you're feeling. But I think...you have focused in some ways by saying, "You know, I still feel like, I still feel lousy about myself and I feel lousy about my relationships with other people." [0:35:41.4]
 Yeah. I think, what I wonder is, what made you feel, when you left here, like this was more of a problem than help? What was it that you were feeling?
 Right. Okay.
 It left you feeling worse.
 It left you feeling worse, not better.
 Right. Okay, that pisses you off too, because you have to do homework and you don't like doing that stuff anyway...
 ...that's annoying.
 So there's a whole lot of stuff that was pissing (chuckling) you off at the end of last session. So I wonder if it made you feel worse, so I wonder because it made you feel worse, if there was some way in which last session made you feel lousier or more like a failure or sort of threatened your self-esteem more? I wonder if there was some way in which last session really got to you?
 Right.
 So my criticism?
 Which made you feel how?
 Like a phony, okay.
 But now just go with how what I said made you feel...
 ...because it sounds like you felt phony, you felt...
 You really felt attacked it sounds like, or at least kind of berated, criticized. [0:38:45.7]
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 But it sounds like you heard it, not as my being skeptical of things you were doing or ways you were thinking, but as being skeptical about you, challenging you?
 Excuse me. (sneezing)
 But it made you so, anyway, but the way you walked out feeling was, sort of lousier about yourself?
 You were pissed off at me?
 Sorry.
 Okay, I'll let you finish.
 Okay, I hear that part.
 Right.
 Okay.
 (chuckling) Yeah, real was right. But what I want to understand is, what made you feel, I understand that it was not profitable, that you walked away, that you sense was it wasn't, it was a waste of time, it was, in fact, it was a negative experience. So what I'm trying to understand is, exactly what made it a negative experience and what happened between us that made it that way? And what happened to how you felt about yourself and what happened in our relationship, since those are the things that I think are good for us to focus on? And if, go on.
 Yeah.
 That's enough. Boy...
 ...if I walked away feeling worse about myself and angry, I can see how you wouldn't want to come back and see that, boy, that's plenty.
 Well, not that you're, (chuckling) that's, those are pretty strong feelings.
 I think, you know.
 Yeah.
 Well, look, certainly I think the thing to add to that is...one is, I say you're a pain in the ass and I think you are, and the other part of that is I like you.
 You're a pain in the ass but I like you.
 Yeah, you do know that?
 Okay.
 And the other thing is, it's certainly not my intention to make you feel worse about yourself...
 ...and to, really to criticize you as a person and to have you walk away feeling worse.
 However, I think that can happen occasionally in any kind of relationship where two people are trying to understand each other. And I'm trying to understand you and something happened with us and you ended up, I ended up saying, "Yeah, I was critical." And you ended up feeling worse about yourself and worse about our connection.
 Right.
 What delights you about that?
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 But something about the way I said that made you feel, it felt honest, you have felt all right with me...
 ...is that, do you usually feel that I'm not honest or direct with you?
 I know.
 I'm making good progress? Okay, well, that's good to hear. I'm glad that I'm making good progress.
 But you're still a pain in the ass, you know? (chuckling)
 So I'm making, so I'm getting better but you're not, so...
 So why do you think I said that? Why do you think I said that you're a pain in the ass? And what...
 It is.
 Well, I wonder if the more important part of it is not what I said but, as you were saying, the way I said it? In other words, the content wasn't so important, maybe the content...is important but maybe more important is the process that I was, that you experienced as being more direct, more in that...
 Yeah. Yeah.
 So there's something refreshing about that to you?
 Yeah.
 A little more spontaneous.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 So both sides of this, we're talking about both sides of this? You're saying that some people really, really like you, you're the best thing since sliced bread, (chuckling) and some people...
 ...other people don't like you?
 So how come you didn't tell me to go fuck myself?
 No?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 All right. Well, we need to stop for today.
 But...maybe we've opened up things a little bit. I agree, if, I think it's helpful if we can...as you're saying, something happened that was a little less intellectual, more just gut level, I think. And maybe that's a bit of an opening for you and for, for both of us to try to figure out what's going on. [0:50:47.3]
 You're looking at me expectantly though...
 "Okay, I'm not sure about that."
 What's that?
 For work so that I can fill it out?
 Oh, I have my own sheet.
 Yes, I have my own sheet and it's very similar to yours.
 Right.
 Exactly. They match our reality against each other's.
 It's a pain it's...
 No. No, I do. (both chuckling) [0:51:43.5]
 Sure. If you can't talk about your conflicts in therapy, where can you talk about them? (thumping noise) Sorry, my apologies.
 Absolutely. Let's see.
 I could meet at 2:40 on the Wednesday. Is that any good?
 That's the 17th.
 What's that?
 Oh, they're 10?
 So it's stressful but not that long.
[04:10.7]
 Are they just coming to visit you?
 So they're flying here but just for 36 hours?
[05:08.2]
 What's been going on?
 Do you think that you like —
 I see.
 Is it in your joints?
 I think I've heard that's an incredibly painful procedure. Is that why you don't want to do it?
 How bad are the side effects from interferon? That good, huh?
[11:50.9]
 So it's a way of like being able to observe you for a while when you're first getting it.
 How painful is it?
 I would imagine.
 You mean, get it done now instead of later?
 "Everything will be okay."
 That's interesting to hear.
 It certainly isn't what you've lived with.
 Well, it's pretty gloomy business, isn't it?
 What are the likely prognoses?
 Your joints aren't deteriorating at the pace at which they were.
 How it is.
 What are the consequences of that? Do they hurt?
 But you don't want to.
 But you don't want to.
 This may be a strange way to put it, but I guess I also have the impression that it can feel almost like a physical kind of insult that you've just had more than enough of at this point.
[19:28.7]
 2009?
 Yeah, and I think you're also bitter and pissed off about all of it, what you've had to go through and put up with.
 During periods of your life when that's just not what most people are thinking about or having to deal with.
 Do you want to do that stuff, I mean, apart from the allergies?
[23:26.5]
 Like there's no way to get out of there, you mean?
 I imagine you're at much higher risk from the arthritis.
 So your bones are more brittle.
 (laughter) I can't imagine why.
 (inaudible at 26:18.3) I remember more the story with his mom.
 Right. And dad.
[26:28.1]
 His psychologist stepmom?
 If I remember correctly, she's said some pretty mean things.
[27:24.9]
 Then she's okay with you.
 Like, in a sense, nothing is better than bullshit?
 Oh my God.
 That's craziness.
[30:29.5]
 If I follow, it sounds like craziness —
 She's almost saying that she has a better sense of what your sex life with your husband is than you?
 Inventing a problem that's not really there.
[31:27.7]
 Oh God.
 It also sounds, apart from having been in Target, just wildly inappropriate.
 Like know-it-all or megalomaniac?
[33:30.8]
 It will help.
[34:33.9]
 Or at least feel just.
 Sorry. There have been lots of incidents with the family.
 Your stepmother?
[35:34.5]
 Or maybe you should be annoyed and bitter and pissed off.
 Or whatever you should be. Maybe that's what you are.
 (laughter) What do you mean?
 I guess we haven't talked much about therapy you've been in before. What has it been like? Apparently different, but other than that?
 It sounds like it felt sort of canned and superficial and it wasn't very helpful.
 I wonder if those things are sort of reciprocal, you know?
 And the therapist, that somehow wasn't being made clear to the therapist? Like that that was —
[40:23.3]
 Thrown out?
 By that —
 Her mood was to say "Oh, then you should go talk to somebody else"?
 Oh. I mean, that seems to me like sort of a problem.
 Oh, okay. I see. So her focus was on not whatever might be going on between the two of you and how to address it, but more a focus on ways of communicating —
[41:20.8]
 It sounds like he presents as much more together and on top of things.
 And kind of with it.
 Right. The communication breaks down.
 We should stop for now, but we'll talk more. I'm not sure if this is what you guys want. It's not something you've mentioned, but if you're looking for a couples' therapist who wouldn't bat an eye at any of this, I can think of some.
 Yeah. No problem.
 See you Thursday.
 This, is Client #0735-103. Client #0735-103. This, is June 22, 1970. June 22, 1970, Session #2. Number is #0735-103.(typewriter in background 0:48)
 Sure.
 Oh, yeah...
 What kind of results did you have in mind?
 Oh. No. It really doesn't work that way. I don't know exactly what the person who is doing research is going to be doing with tapes. I think whatever kind of analysis he uses on them, he won't be thinking at all in terms of you as the individual person and your particular problem. He'll be trying to think about the general hypothesis about all of the people who come to therapy and are there any general things that are true of therapy for everyone.(Audio break 2:51-3:05)
 I don't think so. (phone rings) (offline phone conversation 3:34-:4:01) From what you're saying, it sounds like one thing you'd really like is to be given by me or someone else some sort of evaluation of yourself - some sort of analysis.
 Yeah. We don't exactly operate that way. We don't see ourselves in a position to outline an analysis of, "this, is the problem and this, is the answer". We figure that it's done with the client and the therapist together exploring things. That's what changes come out of, more than detailing a problem and a solution.
 It's like you've been wondering if maybe you are a little bit nuts, and how do you tell?
 I guess when you say, "a little bit nuts", you mean that something is wrong with you. You're a little bit crazy or something along those lines?
 You read the newspaper and you start to say, "Hmm. That looks a little bit like me. You suppose I'm paranoid?"
 So every time you have a business trip you think, "What's she going to be doing while I'm gone?"
 You're not at all happy that your wife dates (ph) other men.
 ...especially while you're sitting at home alone smoking packs of cigarettes.
 Even when you start out intending to say no, that doesn't...
 Well, because you really care about her and also because you feel like she isn't getting all the sex she wants from you and I guess in a way you understand her and you're sympathetic towards her wanting to get it from other men.
 Two things about that. You don't feel very righteous or anything because you know that if you had the opportunity you'd also be going out. Secondly, there's something about how unfair that is.
 Will she be so liberal when you actually have the opportunity?(typewriter clicks in background)(audio break 12:22 - 13:07)
 Sure. If you want to.
 I see your point. But you still want her to come along?
 You don't like the toys strewn around in the bedroom. What can you do?
 I guess you don't like that.
 I think I see what you mean. She feels like she's doing her share of it.
 Even though she feels that way, I guess you don't feel that she's doing her full share?
 You wonder what she's been doing in the meantime.
 When she doesn't do her job, you feel unfairly treated, like that's her half and she should live up to her half?
 Because you're angry at her for not moving up to her share of it. I guess you're like, "Well if she's not going to, I don't see why I should."
 Did you feel like I was calling you childish?
 There may be something childish about it, but there's something very important too. I keep putting it as being unfairly treated, but something along those lines. (inaudible at 20:40) if you're going to be taken advantage of.
 You grew up knowing that your mother had the meals on the table for your father. (inaudible at 21:49) She's not treating you like the man of the house. Like some border or something. 
 (inaudible at 22:40) ...like maybe you're giving one side of the story.
 At any rate, your side of the story is that you don't get treated like the man of the house.
 I guess it's another kind of... (inaudible at 24:19)
 You're feeling self-centered?
 Even though you don't like yourself feeling that way, that's the way you feel. 
 I think I get you. In the last few years you've become really fond of her and yet there's something about the old feeling that she isn't yours. She's not a part of you. There's a distance there. [30:31]
 You don't want to be unfair to her at all, and yet this little blue-eyed cutie like...
 I think it's not that much of a issue...
 Meaning if he were less like you, he'd be better off?
 What you immediately reacted to is the sex stuff, not the back trouble. 
 Yeah, that's true. You're taking a lot of time, worrying a lot about you... I guess, about how you're doing sexually and how it's working out. 
 Yeah.
 Like you worry about it so much.
 You don't really make such a big thing of it.
 Leaving her?
 I guess if that's how you feel about it, that you are failing to be a man and a husband...
 Maybe you're not any good, period. 
 It's not at all what you want.
 It looks like it makes you sad [to a certain point]. (ph)
 You're wanting her to come home. You're looking forward to seeing her. But you don't feel that from her.
 Currently, you don't want to try because it'll just be a failure again and yet you keep hoping it will be different too. Maybe this time, it'll be different. 
 There was something you said to about somehow it seems all the responsibility is on you. She doesn't have to do anything. She just has to lie there. It's you who has to perform.(Audio break 43:00 - 43:16)
 Not that she doesn't?
 You mean she does try to help? She does do things?
 So she's saving herself for them.
 It's a pretty bitter thing. You wonder, "Maybe she doesn't want to be tired for them."(audio break 45:38 - 46:01)
 It's almost like you feel that you don't quite have the right to resent it, because you know that you're not satisfying her as well as you could or should or something. 
 That must've really been very discouraging, because you always had in the back of your mind the hope that it wasn't only you.(audio break 47:54 - 48:12)
 Are you feeling depressed and discouraged right now?
 (inaudible at 49:27)
 Living is so hard and so bad that but your (inaudible at 50:00) wouldn't be better off.
 Yeah.
 Do you mean by being quiet now, or do you mean...
 The way your job is going, you don't feel like you're succeeding and doing well. That kind of casts a (inaudible at 53:14) over everything. 
 All you want to do is just get out.
 I think you're still feeling a bit down... (inaudible at 54:33)
 I think I see what you mean. When you start laying everything out...
 From where you sit right now, it looks very bad. It looks not like there's going to be a way out, but like it's bad and that's the way it's going to stay. Doesn't feel very hopeful.(Audio break 55:43 - 56:07)
 (inaudible at 56:26)
 Bye, now.
 Good morning. 
 Wow. 
 Okay. 
 Do what?
 Huh-uh. 
 Sure.
 (Chuckles) That's actually kind of funny, right?
 (Pause) There are 10,000 reasons. There are a million reasons he could have not wanted to talk to me. That was the one I imagined, you know, because I'm not smart enough. I got that. [0:03:18]
 I know that's not exactly what you meant but —
 —(inaudible at 3.23)
 Yeah.
 (Chuckles)
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. 
 That's right.
 Wow.
 This isn't what you wanted to be. I mean, in a way, it is what you wanted to be doing. But in other ways, it really isn't what you wanted to be doing.
 (Pause) And maybe that's the thing affecting it because you had a choice back where you—I mean, you had a limited choice.
 Right. 
 Huh-uh. 
 Oh, good.
 Oh, that's great.
 That's sure great.
 Okay. 
 You going to have a party?
 Yeah.
 Huh-uh. 
 I mean, I don't know which one, the coffee shop you mean (chuckles)?
 Okay (chuckles).
 Huh-uh. 
 Yeah.
 I love it.
 There used to be pretty good.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I go to the other one.
 Yeah.
 (Chuckles) [0:13:25]
 (Chuckles) 
 I see.
 I've never actually been to that one.
 I've been —
 Yeah.
 Huh-uh. 
 Oh.
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. 
 Part of the—part of (inaudible at 16.44) and part of the point are to discourage intimacy. 
 Oh. If people know that they can hurt you, they'll leave you?
 Huh-uh. 
 (Chuckles) 
 Huh-uh. 
 You're seem to be having a little trouble knowing what to say.
 Do you feel like you need to say something?
 Sort of like half thoughts or something?
 Is this (inaudible at 23.53) because you've also known you're headed to work after?
 Oh, okay.
 Tell me about why you're tired and sad.
 What kind of sad it is?
 You're wanting to die sad? Is it —
 —down about things in your life sad? Is it feeling a sense of loss or —
 Huh-uh. 
 Does it remind you of anything or seem like anything?
 (inaudible at 28.18) it was very fundamental.
 I know. You're sick. 
 Yeah. This in a general way makes some sense to me. It doesn't seem so far fetched.
 (Pause) If you feel really sad. I think you've—I think you feel it pretty deeply and (pause) it's sort of blah from your more usual like (inaudible at 30.29) in the world
 Sure. Tell me.
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. 
 And for whose sake do you have to do that right? Is that like mine or James's or —
 I think what you (pause) really having some trouble with or maybe kind of stuck on is (pause) not (inaudible at 35.25) but more unconsciously being, you know, a little bit in kind of customer service mode and (pause) a little bit inhibited around how upset you are and the way things are so hard. 
I mean, I think, you know, talking about feeling so sad, but not having the words or association or kind of laying out there the way that knowing some bad things you think about are—or knowing some of the bad things you know about yourself kind of makes things worse because then you have to police that. 
So in addition to thinking those things, then you're thinking you shouldn't be thinking those things and feeling bad about that. It's another burden as kind of an example of like (pause) I think you're sort of struggling a bit to put out there how shitty you are feeling —
 —in a way that it's hard to do, because it isn't about taking care of me at all. 
 Huh-uh. 
 Conclusive. 
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. Yeah.
 And (pause) my impression is that's a problem if—
 Huh-uh. 
 Well, I guess (inaudible at 42.05) you really don't know.
 Think that makes you anxious?
 Huh-uh. 
 Huh-uh. 
(Long pause)
 (Chuckles). 
 I'm not sure I was entirely wrong about you being interested in being careful with me. 
 (Chuckles) 
 Yeah, I know that I'm not (inaudible at 44.05) particularly helpful to you like that's made you feel better or (inaudible at 44.13) at some point. 
 Today. 
 (inaudible at 44.24) ever.
 (inaudible at 44.26) today.
 (inaudible at 44.45)
 (inaudible at 44.48) feel better (inaudible).
 All right, we'll talk about that after.  
 It's total disarray here.  
 Give me a second, let me just finish this e-mail.
 Let's find your chart.  
 Ray? What?
 Array, yeah. 
 Uh, well, usually the bottles were arrayed in -
 I spoke with your psychologist, not recently, but maybe within the last two or three weeks.  
 He filled me in on some of what's going on, but, uh, I always get a better story from you than through him.  I even forgot what he told me except that the marital issues are quite charged.  Is that fair to say?
 He's clearly a bipolar to you?
 Oh.
 Why did he hit you?
 Did you take him to Burger King after?
 Good for you.  Take Burger King away for a year, something like that.
 So you're claiming the tension is around that.
 The therapist said point blank don't call me about things like this?
 How did you respond?
 What did you do?
 I imagine you told him it's not acceptable.
 She did?  Based on what he had done to you or what [INAUDIBLE].
 He was in quite a state, huh? 
 Maybe the medicine [INAUDIBLE]
 Right now, he's still getting Depakote, Seroquel, and Prozac.  
 All right, well
 It's overwhelming.
 And impulsive. It's sounds like he's got real impulse issues. 
 And that must be [INAUDIBLE] in.
 The main thing to do and we'll leave it here is, uh, what we do here is set firm limits.  Yknow, until things stabilize in whatever way, in your marriage and everything, you've got to set firm limits.  You've got to, yknow, be crystal clear of the things to do that you can't get away with and even then some of it's impulsive.
 Let's not forget, you have a mood disorder, too.
 Actually, it's a great stimulus for us to know that your mood disorder is in good control that you can manage this and not really unravel is pretty impressive.
 That's pretty healthy.
 Right. 
 Right. 
 You're disengaged, right.
 Listen, you're going through a rough patch.  
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Um, are you really starting to look?
 Just to decompress. 
 All right, let's bracket that for a moment.  When I saw you about a month ago, your mood was fine, you were oversleeping, energy was low, your self esteem was low, feeling a little helpless.  Um, we thought you were in the low end on your moods and we made changes to Depakote, Zoloft, Sonata, Xanax, Ativan, Provigil.
 Depakote, you're on 1500.
 Three of the 500.  
 Is that what you're taking?
 All right, so
 Erections?
 Frequency?  Do you urinate too much?
 Or you can't urinate?
 Had you ever had any urinary issues before?
 Do you have accidents?  Urinate on yourself sometimes?
 But it's mostly at night that you have these problems?
 Even during the day?  Do you take anything in the morning?
 The meds you're on don't really do that.  You know, the, some of it, the Depakote, the Ativan, it relaxes things enough, sometimes people can urinate on themselves.  
 Oh yeah?
 Right.
 Um, have you been to a urologist?
 No?  Why don't you see a urologist?  There are things to do for B P [INAUDIBLE] and you're at the right age to be suffering.  Did your father have it?
 Uh, I see you're bombarded by, the broken-dow-, I mean it's, uh -
 How's your mood been in general these past six weeks?
 I don't want to know where it goes from. How's it been? [INAUDIBLE].
 Mood is low, does that mean you're sad much of the time?  Or are you just frustrated with your life?  
 If we put you out on a desert island without your kid and without your wife, what would your mood be like?
 Yeah, with a beautiful woman. [INAUDIBLE].
 [INAUDIBLE] 
 Right.
 I mean, the question I really have is are you in a depression or are you struggling with real, yknow, stuff, life issues that keep pulling you down.
 Well, you've been through real depressions in your life.  
 Is this what it feels like?  Remember, depression often has sleep, appetite, concentration, self-esteem, energy level, thoughts of death, moving to slow, not getting pleasure from anything.  Are you in that state now?
 How long could that last?  
 They're black.  
 Howard Stern gets away with it.  
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.  How's your appetite?
 Do you eat during the day?  
 You don't binge at night, right, you eat normal?
 Um, you sleeping well?
 How long does it take to get to sleep?
 Really?  Why?   
 Is Ativan 2 mg?
 4 mg?
 And you still couldn't?
 Does the 4 mg beat the 2 mg?  
 Or it just rolls off you?  So let's raise the dose to 4, if you need it, you need it.  The good part of Ativan is it's out of your system the next morning.  
 Yeah, it's a six to eight hour drop.
 Yeah, not much later than that.  You take Provigil in the morning?
 Good. 
 Has that made the insomnia worse?
 You sure?
 And if you really can't get to sleep, you've got to cut back on coffee on any energizer.  Let's stay with the 200 of Provigil.  Your Xanax, obviously, as needed.  The Sonata, so you're up to 20?
 Do you like Sonata?
 All right, so we'll go for 20 if you need it.  Now, and the Depakote obviously 1500 is fine, stay on that dose.
 I think you're more depressed than you're even acknowledging.  I think it seems like it's the family situation, but you're pretty depressed, um, and therefore, the next step is just keep pushing antidepressants until you feel better.  Have we ever had you on a higher dose of Zoloft?  Let's trickle up.   
 It'll work, right.  And if it doesn't work and so we're going to compare at 150 and even 200 to which you are now, if we don't get anything better, we'll go back to the 100 and just go try another antidepressant.
 So for now, we're 150 and let's do that for three weeks.  After three weeks, if you've got something, but not enough, push it to 200 mg.
 And I'll write a prescription for 200.
 The only side effect, the only real side effect is delayed ejaculation and do you have some of that?
 Difficulty ejaculating?  
 Well, you will now, you may now.  
 Viagra?  Sure.  I'll write for the 100s because the price is the same, 25, 50, and 100 so -
 How many do you want?  Do you pay out of pocket for that?
 It's well spent money, um, should I give ten of them and refills?
 I'll give you five. 
 Um, but do -
 Do you need the 400 or do you break them? 
 [INAUDIBLE] get enough.
 Um, do you need other prescriptions?
 Ativan pretty soon.  
 Xanax. 
 Well, how many do you have?  They, uh, they don't last.  The prescriptions kind of expire to different dates.
 Do you have enough Xanax for now?  Or do you need some now?
 Oh, so let me write it since it's just a few days.
 What's your age again?
 Which?
 Um, I sometimes see it burn out a little bit, when someone's doing really well for a while, we start tapering down and see what comes back. 
 But for now, given the life circumstances you have, probably, uh, more is better, you know, more chemistry to get your brain in a better place.   I wrote for three a day of the 2 mg Ativan, so that gets you ninety of them.
 So that should last a while.
 Um, and the Xanax, what should I write for that?
 Half a mg?
 Okay, four, four a day?
 Right. 
 Right, as long as you're not getting tired with the dose.  Your brain just knows when you're taking too much of that stuff.
 Because you get tired and slurry and, you know, whatever.  If that's not happening it means you have enough anxiety to [INAUDIBLE].
 That's what happens.  As people get better, they find that it's making them tired and they reduce the dose on their own.  All right, so just to organize, no suicidal thinking?
 Do you remember what I said about the Zoloft, should I write it down for you?  I want three weeks at the 150. 
 And at that point, you know, if you still want more to go, go to 200.  
 It says two a day of the 100s. 
 The prescription is for the dose [INAUDIBLE]. 
 Feel free to call any time, all right?  If things go in the wrong direction, you know, I wish I could be helpful for your son in some way, but, uh, it's hard work.  I can see the psychiatrist yknow, being a little scared off. 
 When you get the phone call, you know, I've had these phone calls.  When you get the phone call that, you're very powerless as the shrink on the other, you know, what do you do?
 Do you call the police, send him to the emergency room.  It's very hard to know what to do at that point and -
 [INAUDIBLE]
 That's what I was thinking, [INAUDIBLE]. 
 You know, it seems to me, from what you've told me, that the kid needs a little more stability.  
 Yeah, yeah, but I mean, definitely watch for drug abuse.  Do you meet with the psychiatrist when he sees him?  
 Online?
 At least he's got a passion. 
 All right.  Take care of yourself.
 Two months, yeah.  Oh, let me -
 This is client number 1923-018, client 1923-018. February 9, 1971, February 9, 1971, session number four.
 I was lucky I got a ride this morning.
 I was lucky I got a ride this morning.
 I like dreams.
 Some. Did you have a dream or something?
 Um hmm.
 The front door was set in? 0:02:52.7
 And so finally persuaded the kids to come in probably about 9:00 or 10:00 o'clock to go to bed. We had them all down in bed and I remember there was two dogs and a cat missing. And, when we came in like they had run off when we were outside playing or something and I, I assured the children as I tucked them in that their animals would return that they knew where we were, and I'd let them in when they came. It was the summer time. You know how doors like have like two panels? It'll have a top panel and a bottom panel.
 Yeah.
 Wow.
 Yeah. 0:06:01.9
 Yeah.
 Yeah weird. The, the thing that comes through the most clearly is the weirdness and scariness and that it's eerie out in the dark. 
 Yeah yeah.
 One thing one thing people will do sometimes is tell it over again from a different point of view. Maybe you'd like to tell it over again from the point of view of the wolf. 
 Yeah.
 A lot more to the wolf?
 Yeah oh I see yeah.
 Yeah what's the wolf doing in there?
 No not quite no. 
 Yeah but it's a familiar thing or something like it already happened. Is that what you saying?
 Yeah.
 I see like in the dream.
 Yeah yeah.
 (inaudible)
 How would you start to tell the dream from the side of the wolf?
 Yeah yeah.
 Why don't you try telling it like just like it was the dream and only, like like you really did dream it as if you were the wolf in the in the, what am I saying? Try saying it like, like it was the dream and in the dream you were the wolf. And like it doesn't have to be like realistically like wolves behave just like whatever it's almost almost like making up the dream on the spot. 
 It doesn't have to be exactly. 
 I see.
 Yeah start at the go like, "I'm walking around my territory." 0:14:07.1
 What did you think of them when you were watching them? 0:15:57.4
 I'm I'm curious about them. 0:17:31.0
 Um hmm. Um hmm.
 Which is what probably might happen? 0:20:32.9
 Yeah.
 They'll just go on their way.
 Yeah.
 When I listen you to tell that version of the dream I, I don't know I was thinking about the wolf and I was thinking about, like to being on the outside looking in and it's there are all these people doing these peculiar things and you're not quite of the same species and you don't quite understand.
 You try to make overtures and they don't, (inaudible at 0:22:04.8).
 Yeah.
 Um hmm. That's reminds me when you were telling me I was thinking also like if there's something childlike about it too. About...I don't know about the part of you that's the wolf or something it was kind of childlike. 
 Yeah.
 yeah.
 Yeah yeah. 
 Yeah. 0:25:27.0
 Went to a different place?
 Yeah well that was the next thing that she called you.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Not look so eager.
 Yes.
 It's like, "Dammit well why can't he do it sometimes?"
 It feels like, it seemed kind of cold or something. 0:31:08.5
 yeah.
 Uh huh.
 Like you ought to feel you deserve better than that dammit.
 Gut you just kind of want him anyway. 0:33:48.1
 Yeah. Something more close.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Like you can't do, you haven't got any room to maneuver. 0:35:49.3
 (inaudible at 0:36:52.4).
 It's so frustrating that no matter what you do you can't get that out of him. 0:38:01.0
 Just like almost like you were two people who happened to be in the same club and that was all.
 Like there was no connection between you.
 Yeah. 0:41:05.7
 You get so mad at yourself for keeping on making the effort even though you know you're not going to get any appreciation.
 Well it makes you feel bad not to get it.
 Yes.
 Yeah. Maybe it's not just his habit or something but it is really expressing, that he really doesn't care about you or doesn't want you. 0:43:14.1
 Feeling that you might as well give it up?
 So it makes, it leaves you without any status even with woman.
 Yeah. Well I guess a lot of what you're depressed about was that he probably doesn't really care for you (inaudible at 0:46:02.2).
 Not as a woman. 0:46:10.5
 Yeah.
 Yeah they were your friends.
 Yeah.
 And so that leaves you not able to have buddies because you, the kinds of things that you used to do. 0:51:21.6
 Yeah nothing yeah.
 Yeah I know. 
 She really...yeah. 0:54:17.3
 Yeah.
 But you're going to still feel like maybe she would. 
 That's you're going to loose Meg you're going to loose the way she listened to you and the way she was a help.
 Yeah sit and home and be depressed. 0:57:17.7
 Do you mean to get out of feeling depressed and like you're a dud?
 Yeah.
 Think about the things you're doing and the people that you're seeing and stuff.
 Not sort of be watching yourself and thinking about like, "Am I doing alright? Am I good enough?"
 You carry yourself in a good strong voice but it doesn't work.
 Sort of like you have to keep checking up on yourself to make sure to make sure you don't talk to much, to make sure you're not overbearing.
 You'll just sort of...
 ...go on and on and on. But in a sense you need to be self-conscious.
 I think I see what you mean. Like it's one thing to watch your behavior and it's another thing to be sort of worrying about how people are reacting to you and sort of worrying about things you can't help.
 Yeah. 1:02:38.0
 But she doesn't say that.
 There's some kind of spark that she has that you don't.
 Actually I have to quit.
 We're going to do the second one in the afternoon next.
 Is 4:30 on Friday alright?
 Yeah.
 Right. 
 This is interview number 12; 1979, client number 0729107. Hi.
 [inaudible at 0:42]. I finally took to walking on the grass.
 It makes you feel kind of frightened of it too, doesn't it?
 And it wasn't fun.
 And so you can't count on going, well I could drop out anytime and go back into practice.
 But it sounds too like also somehow, that that's kind of the epitome of what happens to you... 
 And you lose something that's very valuable and very desirable.
 But you kept kicking yourself all the time you would want to [inaudible at 07:47]
 And then you feel well what am I doing here being a student when I could be out making money? [08:50]
 Or you need to feel, I could quit if I really wanted to quit. [inaudible at 11:30]
 [inaudible at 15:56] even wonder about that.
 That's something you didn't even look at or consider. I wonder in terms of exactly ending up coming here, it sounded like you were saying that you feel it would be awful if somebody just didn't have anything to work out and to talk about, to deal with. And I'm wondering whom it would be awful to?
 An awful lot depended on getting it there in the morning.
 Kind of a survival...
 I've been hearing that, like if I took a weekend off, I'd probably continue for the rest of my life taking weekends off. And then some is feeling that you couldn't trust it to be just the weekend off. That then you'd let go completely and be gone.
 You kind of think, I want to be responsible. That's the way I want to be, but I'd like to be free to have some flexibility in that. [23:46]
 And yet, it's interesting to me that you put it, okay I did all these things on Saturday and on Sunday, being very responsible all day Saturday and all day Sunday. You couldn't say I'd like 15 minutes off to get a little rest and go play hockey it had to be I want 15 minutes off to be irresponsible. It sounds like it would have to be the reverse, so I can get some time off. [25:56]
 [inaudible at 27:13]
 You're feeling that's okay in one sense, but there's a whole part of life I don't know, a whole sense of feeling free. And feel what I feel like doing, not what I ought to do. [29:04]
 Yeah, I can see that.
 You're shaking the foundation.
 You can see yourself in the very same way.
 That's not much better. 
 [inaudible at 37:59]
 That in some way you'll have more to [inaudible at 39:05] it. Feel freer.
 That's certainly one thing I see. Another thing is you're saying I'm talking about it's all up here, it's all in the head kind of thing. It's full of words, full of responsibility, irresponsibility. And if you get it down to concrete things - I keep thinking of going to play hockey - because that seems very concrete. And then I immediately get this reaction from you, well going to play hockey is irresponsible, taking time off to do something like that is irresponsible, defined as irresponsible. And then I have this vision of the way you said it like you couldn't stand it anymore and in a very angry way, well I'm going to go play hockey anyway. [43:06]
 Then it didn't feel good to you, you felt like you'd done something bad, and it left a bad taste behind you.
 You feel very angry with her.
 Like you really should be getting to work and not...
 [inaudible at 51:47]
 It's been stewing?
 Like the business for being responsible in order to get it [inaudible at 54:59], you're telling me that it's all tied up with being responsible and being at work. That that's where it gets really tough, it's the only way you can be defined as worthwhile is to be responsible.
 Okay.
 Good morning.
 Right away.
 So, with the insurance that you're signing up for, is it the school insurance?
 Oh okay.
 Something seemed to happen there a minute ago. Like
 Yeah. Do you know what made you go...?
 The insurance thing?
 Is it the same pain?
 [00:09:00 ] Sorry, I'm laughing because it was like, what could be a bigger pain than insurance?
 No, I'm sorry, I meant like the pain from surgery.
 You (inaudible) settled with it.
 [00:12:33 ] I'm sorry, which conversation was this?
 HR.
 I guess there was something that felt uncomfortable about it or unsettling about it?
 Is there sort of a blank or ?
 Are you saying in part that you're uncertain about that now?
 [00:18:23 ] I see. (pause) Oh gosh, I wish it was miserable so it would be more entertaining for me.
 No, yeah. I see it. Um. (pause) Do you have any other thoughts about that?
 Is that the things that come to mind seem sort of happy or irrelevant.
 Well, there is good being repetitive. And we're definitely being repetitive. That' a (inaudible). I would say whatever comes to mind even if it's irrelevant.
 Okay, all right. It's not like you have a whole flood of thoughts that you're editing (inaudible) comments (inaudible) like this is the good stuff (inaudible)
 I see.
 Like a week is Thursday to Thursday?
 While I'm thinking about it then, are you around on Monday?
 Okay.
 It's up to you. I have time on Friday midday if you like.
 [00:22:39] I think you're really self-conscious.
 But yeah, I guess you're sort of tracking yourself very closely.
 And that way. (Client starts to speak) Go ahead.
 See like that. (laughs)
 (inaudible) [00:23:37 ] that don't (pause) and for good reasons, I imagine you're worried about messing something up. Maybe for me, but probably more for you. In other words, like that you'll say something that will have some bad repercussions for you.
 Uh huh. Yeah. I think you worry about this spontaneity or (inaudible) spontaneity, um, some sort of (inaudible) that comes out of you that shouldn't have.
 Like how so? What did you say?
 [00:26:39 ] I'm sorry, had ideas
 People would think (overtalk)
 Right, and these are teachers.
 Part of it, in some situations more than others, I think sometimes including this one, you very much feel that sense of danger under scrutiny that you felt as a kid.
 [00:31:21] How come? Because I judge you so harshly or?
 Somebody in here has been really quite judgmental.
 Sort of. I mean, I don't think everybody had a shitty childhood. Some people who wind up in therapy didn't have a shitty childhood. I don't mean that, overwhelming struggles and difficulties in everybody's childhood, but
 Okay.
 Like, you say you wonder. You mean, you think actually everybody did have a shitty childhood.
 Oh, I would agree with that.
 [00:35:55 ] Yeah, no, I guess that's what I (unintelligible), everybody has very overwhelming things happen as a kid. (pause) But what you're saying is (pause) I guess you're worried about being identified with yourself as a kid. Like, being mistaken for that same person you were then. Is that what you mean?
 [00:38:35 ]Yeah, I think you're premeditating a lot. (laughs) And I think you are sort of worried about where you'll find yourself if you kind of head down any of these alternative paths of talking about this or that. Probably partly (inaudible) how I would judge it or what I would make of you from it and also to some extent, (pause) even if it did feel good to talk about it or something good did come out of it, then you would then go after yourself for what you had said.
 Like you're in kind of a mine field here, I think. And well, I could sort of go that way but you know, that could blow in my face. I could sort of go that way, but that could blow up in my face. I think that's kind of what you're, I guess (inaudible) sort of feel constricted by.
 [00:41:00 ] I suspect that you also, (inaudible) how you use it in here is that, I could imagine you'd feel, you are pretty scrutinized, but like, we're both probably look carefully at what you said.
 [00:44:04] I guess it's also a way, all this, of keeping me out.
 My precious (unintelligible) mixed feelings on that part.
 Talking about.
 Well, I'm sure part of it, I mean one thing it seems to me that is (inaudible) that we're finding out as we talk is that it's often things you weren't quite aware of or weren't quite expecting or that are hurting you.
 Well, like you know, it's becoming clearer that even though it seemed (inaudible — saying some names?) seem perfectly reasonable in your conversations with him, that there were a number of hurtful things going on. Not that either of you were (inaudible) was going on or the fact that ANY way would have been what you would want or meant. But that was what was happening. Then it's sort of like (pause), uncertain dangers about being closer to people.
 [00:46:34 ] (unintelligible)
 We should stop. So we'll talk more on Wednesday.
[End of file]
 Why are you in a straight jacket?
 Don't shake your head, answer me. 
 You don't know why you're in a straight jacket? Did you say that you wanted to kill yourself?
 I mean, today? Yesterday? When you were standing in the bathroom with a nail file in your hands. What were you doing that for?
 I don't hear you. 
 Well, that's not the story I get. [Name inaudible - 04:12], what do you know about it?
 I can't hear you. 
 Yes, and knowing that once he cut his wrist with a razor, and the other time with a piece of glass, and he had been talking about killing himself, about dying, you felt that it would be wise to take no chances and that's what I agree with. Absolutely. Because the hell with analyzing why his testicles disappear, and why he's getting smaller and all the other insane symptoms. If we're going to work on that and he kills himself, what good is he? Do you understand that?
 What did I just say? 
 Exactly. We don't want to lose you. [Silence]. Look at me. As you sit here thinking now, are you thinking that you would not like to kill yourself? When you shake your head, the microphone can't hear it.
 I see you're still able to smile anyway. 
 Huh?
 Why what?
 Why do you say that with such a forlorn hopeless point of view? You can't understand why you're able to smile at all anymore? What's happening to you so terrible?
 Explain that to me. It's a little difficult to understand. You're losing feeling about what?
 You're losing feeling about even being alive as though you don't care if you're alive or not?
 What is it? I don't understand you. 
 When you talk to a person and you keep talking to them and he still doesn't understand, I just don't get it. After so long, a person should understand something. 
 Now, who doesn't understand, you or I? 
 By that I mean, are you trying to tell me something that I don't get or are you disturbed because I'm trying to tell you something that you don't get?
 I see. We're not really in rapport or connected.
 Where? 
 I understand that very well. I think you want to go somewhere where you can be attached to something. You never had the love of the mother. She couldn't be attached to you. You tried to be attached to her, but you know that she called up here and said she hoped you'd be dead. And you also know that she accused you and your father of being out of the treatment unit consorting some place in the streets of Philadelphia at two o'clock in the morning. That's crazy, isn't it? You know that she's been institutionalized? Look at me. You know she's been mentally sick, don't you? Don't shake your head. Say yes or no.
 She's been mentally sick, hadn't she? And, when a person is mentally sick, they can't be concerned about somebody else. They're too busy being concerned about themselves. We call that narcissism-like. Do you understand that? When you're as upset as you get, can you be worrying about somebody else? 
 I don't hear you. 
 Let me give you an example. When you thought your body was shrinking, and your testicles had disappeared, and you were turning into�
 Were you busy thinking about that or somebody else?
 Well your mother goes through things like that all the time. I saw her the other day sitting there by herself in the corner and talking to herself at a great rate. Do you think she was listening to voices? She certainly was not paying attention to anybody else, because I was right at the next table, and she was not paying attention to anything except the voices. She hardly even noticed the waitress when she came by. So, then you were never able to find your mother, then you turned to find your father, but he was very unresponsive, wasn't he? He had feeling, but he couldn't express it. He was like you. He was silent, wasn't he? I'm talking to you. Don't shake your head.
 Did your father talk and make himself understood? Did he relate to you very actively? 
 Well, then if have you found solid comfort in the relationship with your father, why did you want to leave? Why didn't you go to�?
 Huh?
 You left Philadelphia and went to New Orleans. You wanted to leave the world by cutting your wrist. You're trying to find peace some place. You're trying to find some kind of unity for yourself. It's clear that you have not found it here. And in some way, I fail to relate to you properly. You're shaking your head. 
 And you failed to relate to me, but that doesn't mean that we can't ultimately relate to each other. I don't fail to relate to the other people in this room, and they don't fail to relate to me. And I'm trying very hard to relate to you. For some reason, you won't have me. Do you know why? Don't make your mouth tight like that. Take me in a little bit. You make your mouth tight and you don't look at me. You don't want to take me in at all. I can see that. But I take you in. My eyes are right on you, aren't they? My mouth doesn't shut as tight as a clam, does it? But yours does. And you get silent. 
 Why don't you love me? 
 When you look at me, you're making a frown. You make your mouth as tight as a clam. 
 Why don't you get up and put your arms around me and give me a kiss? 
 There goes your mouth again, and you look away. You don't want to come near me. 
 Now you smile. And there goes that mouth again. When you smile, you almost let me in. Are you afraid that it would mean something homosexual if you did that?
 Exactly. There is a total feeling that's called love. In it, to a slight extent, is sex. But sex alone is far far from love. And what I have in mind between you and me, if it has anything to do with your penis or anything like that, or my penis, it's so unconscious, that I don't notice it. It's almost as though I didn't feel it, or it's almost as though you didn't feel it. Or maybe in you it's stronger. When I say love, maybe you just think penis.
 Eh?
 Well, I'm glad to hear that. You were concerned that you were becoming a woman, you know. I thought maybe that was still working on you. Because if you were a woman, then you'd be interested in my penis, wouldn't you? 
 I didn't hear you.
 Well, but there is a possibility, isn't it?
 Yes. But you're not a woman. I promise, neither am I. So, if that's what's keeping you away from me, and away from everybody�
 They are?
 It's what?
 Well�
 Uh huh. Every man has unconscious homosexuality. Because every man loves his father to me. What do you call that? When a man loves a man?
 You see now, do you think that respect means love? Do you see how frightened you are to face this honestly? Do you think that respect and love mean the same thing? 
 Of course not. You see, you are frightened at these thoughts. But we'll reach each other. It's going to take time. And we're going to do it just this way; sitting and discussing with each other. Just like the other day when I explained to you that you have two minds. One is what? 
 That's right. Conscious and unconscious. And these thoughts that I'm talking about now are in which mind? 
 No, not me. I wouldn't fool around with your penis for $10 bucks, and I wouldn't let you fool around with mine either. So where are these thoughts if they're there at all?
 In the unconscious mind. Now you've got it. And in the conscious mind, is listening what we're talking about. The explanation, you see. The intelligent part of this thing. The conscious mind is able to say respect doesn't mean love anymore than having intercourse means love. It may be one of the elements that go in to what makes up love. Do you agree with that? I didn't hear you.
 And I'm sure that when you begin to love me in the way that I mean, like a father and son or like two brothers, or like, I don't know; like I am with he would do anything for me and I would do anything for him. And if I die, he'll cry at my funeral. And if he dies, I will too. See? That's the kind of something that happens between two people that's close and good. They understand each other. They feel about each other. They are sympathetic. They are comrades. They have companionship. They go out and eat together the way you and I did. Do you remember? 
 Don't shake your head.
 Do you remember? And you had trouble taking in the food then. You have trouble taking in anything, especially me. Also me. You can't take me in either. And it maybe because of the penis taking in, you know. Maybe that's what holds us back from being close to each other. But as we talk and talk, and as time goes on, and if you don't have a chance to kill yourself. Because if you kill yourself, I'm licked. Right? 
 I didn't hear what you said.
 And if you kill yourself, then you become a hopeless case because after that, I can't kill you anymore. But if we keep working with each other like this, and you stay alive, we'll get to that level that I'm talking about. And when you feel it, you'll have courage enough to live. You will want to live. You will want to see me. You will want to tell me about what you did, and the job that you've got, and the wife that you've married, and the kids that you've got and all that sort of stuff. 
 You're throwing me out again. Do you feel a little emotional or sentimental or affectionate? You took your eyes away from me, and you made your mouth tight. You don't want to take me in with your eyes, and you don't want to take me in with your mouth. And maybe you don't even want to listen to me. You don't want to take me in with your ears. That's just what makes you run to a place to find something. Well, something is right here in front of you. You shake your head yes, but I wonder if you really mean it. If I gave you a razor and turned you loose in the toilet now, what would you do?
 Okay, but you said "Probably." Or what else might you do? 
 Do you think you'd kill yourself? That worries me. Remember how mad I got when you cut your wrist last time? It's the only time I ever belted you in the jaw, isn't it? Eh, you remember? I don't hear you. 
 That's one thing I can't stand. I really love you. If you died, I would be too unhappy. But if I died, you'd probably, you know; so what? That's where the trouble is. You're just like your mother. With your mother, if you died, so what? Don't make your mouth so tight. You always do that. And now you close your eyes and you make your mouth tight. This goes back to your mother. Take me in. 
 Hey, right here. What are you thinking about?
 Have you thought of hurting me?
 That you were hurting me? Do you know why you were hurting me?
 How are you hurting me?
 You were taking part of my blood? That shows you how crazy a guy is when he thinks about killing himself. They only said that in order to kill yourself, you have to be completely in a deep dream. You really don't know you're doing it. Did you know that you were killing yourself when you were cutting your wrist with a razor? What was operating then, your conscious or your unconscious mind? 
 Was it something that you were doing in a dream? I don't hear you.
 I always think that, that a suicide, if you could wake up, what he was trying to do would seem like a dream. Well, here, you can have a bite. Here, or would you rather just kiss it?
 I don't mind if you have some of my blood. All right. I'll see you later.
 Good morning.
 Well, good.
 The team?
 Most improved after attendance? Does that mean like most improved going to the get togethers . . . [00:06:10]
 The trip's for the [draft?] (inaudible at 00:07:29) 
 Did she say anything about not having called you before?
 I'm thinking about what you said. 
 Rereading Jess's e-mail from however long ago that was, a year and a half . . .
 You read what she wrote and you really didn't feel anything reading it? She was complaining about this about you, complaining about that about you, you didn't do this, you didn't do that; and you didn't feel anything. Then it made you think you haven't really gotten any better; nothing has really changed for you. Can you tell me a little more about that? I mean the first part I know literally what you mean when you say you read it and kind of didn't feel anything, but do you have any thoughts about that? [00:17:31]
 I think you felt kind of like a whipped dog. 
 I would imagine that the world kind of feels like Jess. I mean, not Jess beating up on you, it's life.
 Feel like nothing can just work out going forward or get better. (long pause) [00:24:40] 
 Have a good time.
 That certainly cuts across all of this—your helplessness. You know everything you're describing is about basically shit happening to you that you can't do a damn thing about. 
 It's a terrible situation to be in when check engine light comes on one day and you absolutely don't know what it means is going to happen next. Is the car going to stop driving or what's going to happen? You're just kind of stuck waiting for the next kick in the head. (long pause) [00:30:49] What do you anticipate about the closing?'
 How that will go.
 What is it?
 You're not really asking much.
 And then, you mean they'll hear her version of it?
 What she said or how it hurt or . . . ?
 You felt really down on yourself. 
 What plays did you make?
 So you're in this Friday and a week from today, but then out that Friday?
 (inaudible at 00:00:25).
 Sorry, what's a "gotcha?"
 Have you — I'm not sure if you've been too upset to think about this or not, but have you thought much about whether there's a way out of this?
 Some way you could alter your thesis or two different projects, or find some way of doing something for your advisor that would keep you enough in her good graces that you could graduate and get a letter and not have to work on this project which is driving you nuts? [00:04:18]
 What matters to her from this project? [00:05:08]
 I'm hesitating because, like, I'm completely ignorant about this. But I wonder if that's worth asking her about.
 I mean, you feel bad for letting her down. [00:06:05]
 That's not what you set out to do, or is it because you think she's so horrible that you didn't want to do work for her, I don't think.
 And so, I mean, you feel plenty bad about that and you would, I think, like apart from the benefits for you, want to try to help her out.
 So is that a conversation you can have with her about, like, how you can do that or what about this project matters most to her? Or is sort of the most important in part because, you know, there's some parts of it that I guess are very difficult and frustrating and seem pointless to you. But if there's a way of, like — see how some of it may have a point to her. [00:07:15]
 It may just have a point, you know, or, like, maybe the stuff that matters to her can be done without doing all the stuff that you think is stupid or —
 Is it going to work? I don't understand.
 Right.
 That's not what you want to hear.
 And bullshit. [00:09:21]
 And is it too late to (inaudible at 00:09:58) approach? I mean, even if you could convince her that her approach is bullshit?
 Yeah. [00:10:07]
 Yeah. And —
 Yeah. Is it possible to actually finish what you're working on? I mean, you're describing (inaudible at 00:10:43).
 I understand, but in spite of the pitfalls, like the, I guess, "gotchas" you called them.
 Absolutely.
 (inaudible at 00:11:11) be able to sit on a library shelf and gather dust pretty much (inaudible at 00:11:14).
 And dissertation for that matter, yeah.
 So it's a matter of like, you're doing something that you feel like shit about.
 Which (inaudible at 00:11:38) would you like?
 It was hard if I remember right.
 When you say you skated through, do you mean like, you didn't work or —
 Okay got you.
 Yeah, of course, you don't remember (inaudible at 00:12:12).
 Yeah and depressed.
 And you don't need the class to graduate?
 And there's not way to get the other credit if you were to change your thesis to one credit project?
 Right, which would be less doable than the thesis? I guess here's what I'm wondering about. Like are there any arrangements you could broker with your advisor such as doing some research for her over the summer, something like that. That would again, like, give her more of what she would want than your thesis would anyway, and make your life easier.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 She wasn't exactly forthcoming either. (Pause) (inaudible at 00:16:48) she hasn't been much help.
 Like basic information about academic stuff?
 Right. I would think that's kind of important.
(Laughter)
 Go out on a limb here, yeah.
 You should get on that.
 What were you taking? [00:17:59]
 And what happened to your old prescribe — oh, is your (inaudible at 00:18:08).
 (inaudible at 00:18:23).
 Would you see her for that to —
 How did you leave? [00:18:35]
 (inaudible at 00:19:07) you're saying you're, like, pretty pissed off at her?
 Can you, in the interim, see somebody that (inaudible at 00:19:36) a counseling center? Like, do they have prescribers there?
 (inaudible at 00:19:49) you got to find a prescriber for the longer term, but, you know, I was just thinking to get by.
 You ran out last week?
 What I was going to say was not that at all. (Laughter) (inaudible at 00:20:36). Yeah, I would call and if they can't give you an appointment soon, like today or Thursday, like, I don't know, the next few days.
 Like, I would walk in there for urgent appointment with a prescriber. I know at Cambridge you can do that. I don't know how it works there, but you could probably just walk in.
 And say, like, you know, you're having a hard time. You're in a big crunch with your work. This is absolutely not helping and —
 And you can't wait a week to get your prescription refilled.
 You probably wouldn't be able to get in to see anybody, like, outside university (inaudible at 00:21:11) anyway.
 Can you tell how much that it's affecting you or —
(Pause)
 I see. Does that mean it wasn't helping very much? [00:22:12]
 I see.
 Right. Not an issue.
 Yeah.
(Pause)
 Yeah. Most of the people I know like to do therapy with (inaudible at 00:25:13). But I can (inaudible at 00:25:14) people who don't necessarily (inaudible at 00:25:18).
 Are there other things that are making this more difficult now?
 (inaudible at 00:25:54) overall?
 (inaudible at 00:25:56).
 Right.
 Well, I would imagine it touches a little bit on the she is more important than you kind of thing?
 Is there anything else that would be helpful to sort of talk about (inaudible at 00:27:26) with the thesis? It sounds like that's really kind of the main source of — like the most stressful thing right now. [00:27:32]
 Could you find a tutor? I would think there are —
 (inaudible at 00:28:04).
(Pause)
 It's not that far off.
 Right.
(Laugher)
 Yeah, like you're pretty ready (inaudible at 00:29:40) fuck out of there. [00:29:40]
 Well, in both of those situations the class and the thesis suck. I mean, I don't know. You're not saying I'm working on a project that I like, but I'm just kind of sick of it because I've been working on it all year, and I, like, haven't finished. But I sort of basically believe in it or, you know, I'm taking some classes that are challenging, but, you know, I can do them (inaudible at 00:30:15) taking classes. I mean, you're saying I'm in class, I'm over my head because I really don't have all the background that I need.
 (inaudible at 00:30:21) a project that I think is dumb and (inaudible at 00:30:25) roadblocks in it for an advisor who can't help me. [00:30:29]
 Oh.
 I guess he'd have to see the whole thing.
 Right. And the F had probably much more to do with depression than anything else.
 But of course, you wouldn't know.
 But you're embarrassed about it. Does the department have any actual power over your life?
 Okay. I can't imagine though that some old F's would (inaudible at 00:32:44). I mean, like, I thought maybe he was writing a letter that could —
 Too bad there's not a good answer.
 Yeah, might be a good idea. [00:33:25]
 I mean, that would —
 Right. And does that mean you would be done with your work (inaudible at 00:34:05) in the middle of April?
 My thought was that, you know, you could start doing some stuff for your advisor sooner if you did it that way, I would guess. [00:34:17]
 Which she might automatically be happy about, and it would free up more of your time.
 It does sound like that would make things a lot easier anyway.
 (inaudible at 00:35:02) to me, like, have a conversation with him and see.
 (inaudible at 00:35:09).
 You could. [00:35:39]
(Pause)
 Would you feel really bad, I mean, if you went to (inaudible at 00:36:18) and said, look, here's what I want to do, I want to talk to you about what is feasible and whether — and also, like, explain that that was a hard time in my life, bla, bla, bla. [00:36:28]
 And he's, like (inaudible at 00:36:31) I understand (inaudible at 00:36:32) like, would you still feel really shitty about it?
 (inaudible at 00:36:48) enjoy working on the thesis very much if it comes to that.
 Or feel good about the time you're putting in or that sort of thing. [00:36:56]
 Working such as depression (inaudible at 00:37:14) you had no control.
 Oh my God.
 Oh God.
(Laughter)
 That's craziness.
 Craziness, that's very fucked up.
 Well —
 And (inaudible at 00:39:14) Harvard has generally been pretty good about that I think, hasn't it? I mean, fairly accessible.
 Okay, yeah.
 I see.
 Oh God, that's awful.
 (inaudible at 00:40:02).
 Oh, that's awful.
 I see.
 Not very helpful I'm sure.
 Yeah, when they weren't so good.
 Well, we'll stop for now.
 (inaudible at 00:40:47).
 Session 15.
(pause)
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Oh, (inaudible at 0:00:17.0).
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right there.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Oh.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right here.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Right here.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: OK, thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: (inaudible)
 You don't know why you're friendly?
 (inaudible at 0:01:46.9)
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible)
 They don't feel inadequate?
 They do feel inadequate.
 OK. [They're easy to make friends with] (ph).
 (inaudible at 0:05:19.0)
 And that's because they aren't really that interested in you?
 So somehow they resented you as some kind of evidence of how they're inadequate.
 (inaudible) when people go out (inaudible) attracted to who somehow bring that out of being himself (inaudible) other people.
 (inaudible) they really don't want (inaudible) feelings about being inadequate.
 And so it's kind of (inaudible).
 They're not as available, so they don't search you out in the same way.
 [Some things I really want to understand what it could be like to be with someone] (ph). It really has to be with someone who feels more adequate than a lot of people; a lot of men.
 Well, you've said a lot (inaudible).
 (inaudible at 0:09:41.8) [confused about that too, right] (ph)?
 He can't show you off.
 Well, I'm not so sure what to think about that because ...
 I'm not quite sure what — how that makes you feel; makes you feel all the time.
 So now I see what kind of man you're looking for and I see what kind of man you like, but I really don't have any way of (inaudible at 0:10:50.9).
 They're all taken already.
 (overlapping voices) I know what you're saying. (inaudible)
 (inaudible at 0:11:31.8).
 But isn't it ...?
 But you're wondering why. Is this part of what you're doing? It's like, "What is it? Is it something about me that's maybe doing it?" or (inaudible at 0:12:31.2)?
 OK. (inaudible at 0:12:45.4) it's got to be something about you.
 (inaudible) have much left.
 (inaudible) it's so hard when it doesn't — you know, when he doesn't [sit with you or do something with you] (ph). (inaudible) figure out what that means (inaudible).
 (inaudible at 0:15:28.8)
 (inaudible)
 Yes, seeing a woman at school.
 But if it was that, then ...
 So, I see. So when you felt like he's changing, that meant that he was seeing somebody regularly.
 And then he felt bad because he never liked you that way.
 He never liked you enough to want to see you regularly.
 It feels like (inaudible)?
 (inaudible)
 So therefore (inaudible).
 And that makes you feel very (inaudible) unable to hold a man.
 (inaudible)
 You would really like not to but it's there with you.
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible at 0:18:27.5)
 So it feels very confused to you because he seems to like you physically and then he seems to stop liking you physically. Is that it?
 Well, that's the part that hurts.
 Yes, I understand.
 Because (inaudible at 0:20:30.1) less somehow than that person who you really love. (inaudible)
 Maybe he doesn't [express that] (ph).
 We don't know goes to make up that.
 Why does he only seem willing just sometimes and not all the time if you like a person?
 So sometimes it feels like there's something wrong with your personality.
 But he says that (inaudible) he likes plenty of things about you. What is it he doesn't like about you? (pause) Yes.
 Yes, (inaudible at 0:22:58.5).
 But that's seems very hard to explain (inaudible).
 Well, what is it you have (inaudible at 0:23:51.9) some kind of feeling that you have like feeling nothing if you get a man coffee. (inaudible)
 (inaudible at 0:24:29.4)
 (inaudible)
 Had no part.
 Yes, I understand that.
 Set up a blind date for you?
 But I guess you were saying it made you hurt or angry (inaudible at 0:27:04.4) that way?
 So yes, [I can see] (ph). And she wouldn't want you because you don't look good enough.
 Like that annoys you; critical like that.
 Is she so (inaudible at 0:27:52.6).
 It's irritating.
 But it feels like she's very judging (inaudible at 0:28:41.3).
 (inaudible at 0:28:57.1)
 And that really turns you off to see that ...
 Almost like you're (inaudible at 0:30:02.4) the power of (inaudible) other people think; like how attractive they (inaudible).
 And then this time was like one [power down] (ph).
 So that made you feel a little less lovable, too.
 So, are you saying that makes the power (ph) thing less important? Like that's — the fact that she ...
 One way you look at it's important; one way it's not.
 She doesn't have everything.
 So you feel somewhat critical of her, too.
 Are you thinking that [in a way] (ph), "Like if I were on a date, I could be more talkative and contribute more"?
 You have interesting things to say.
 But you have something to say.
 Well, is that how you feel, though? (inaudible)
 I guess you're saying in a way you're feeling that way; right now, as you think about it. But you don't want me to get the impression that you're somehow boasting.
 (overlapping voices) (inaudible)
 So it makes you feel like you have something. She may have beauty ...
 ... and you may or may not have that. But you do have a kind of an ability to talk to people.
 Her values are kind of shallow to you.
 Looks should be important; that that's how people should be judged.
 They should be graded on their looks.
 But it sounds like you're saying, "The time that I sit here and talk about this, I don't feel that's the way that I want to judge other people or want to be judged by other people; just by my looks."
 (inaudible)
 You feel like (inaudible).
 Wonder what?
 What makes you wonder?
 They see you as somebody who could be loved by someone.
 Does that make you say, "Well, OK. Maybe I could be"?
 Right. It's not knowing what makes them talk like that (inaudible) value is. (pause) So it feels like a lot of time — not a lot of time but a lot of the way you look at it is going around often you think "Who thinks that I could be loved by anyone? Who doesn't think that I could?" and keeping hoping, I guess, that people will think that you can be and keeping worrying that maybe you can't be.
 (inaudible at 0:40:18.1)
 Well, I've told you what I think before.
 But you know what? (inaudible at 0:40:38.2)
 Yes, I said that I feel that — I feel it's important to get information like that; if you want it. (inaudible at 0:40:52.5) if you have those kinds of doubts. I guess what I'm saying is I think there are ways to get information.
 (inaudible)
 Well, because that would [see him how] (ph)?
 I never asked that question (inaudible at 0:41:46.0).
 But I want to get back on that other thing I was saying before, which it sounds like you were saying that when you talk with people and you ask them questions about how they feel about you, it makes you feel like you're imposing on them somewhat.
 Yes. That's true. True. (inaudible at 0:42:52.6)
 So it sounds like, in a way, you're concerned about it. You don't feel [that you're ever taken seriously] (ph); that they kind of brush it aside.
 So it's almost like unless they would admit there's this problem, (inaudible at 0:43:59.6) being honest. Is that right?
 What other men think. That's true.
 (inaudible) care about you and not be so worried what other people are thinking. (pause) (inaudible)
 Do I want you to what?
 Well, how do you know — how do you decide what I (inaudible)? How do you decide ...
 That's true. I guess the only answer to that is that I (inaudible at 0:46:35.6). I don't know if they're right. I don't know if they're right. (inaudible) there a lot of (inaudible).
 Well, I guess what I'm saying is that I think there are ways you can find out how (inaudible at 0:47:29.6) feel about it and then you can sort of draw your own generalizations (inaudible) how you feel (inaudible). But I'm saying (inaudible) there's nobody that can — there's nobody that can look down on the world and say, ["All men do that"] (ph) (inaudible).
 (inaudible)
 Well ...
 (inaudible at 0:48:32.5) I guess what I am saying is I guess these questions are more answered in the way they (inaudible).
 (inaudible) It sounds like you really don't know.
 There may not be.
 No, you might not know. No, it's like anything else. How do you find out anything, you know? There's something (inaudible at 0:49:52.1). You see somebody walking into the library. You never know where they're coming from. You never know where they're going. You don't know a lot of things in the world. But there are ways to try and find certain things out. You see what I'm saying?
 (inaudible at 0:50:25.2) different than that?
 Yes, well. But that's when it's pretty depressing, correct?
 (overlapping voices) [And it just seems to work] (ph).
 Right. But sometimes I guess you're saying things feel bad and maybe you'll get out of it if you stop wishing they were better.
 That doesn't seem true to you, what she said.
 Maybe you aren't initially accessible and friendly to lots of people ...
 It sounds like you're ...
 It sounds like (inaudible).
 Nobody knows anybody?
 (inaudible)
 So you feel shut out.
 Yes, knowing. Yes. And no way to get to know those kinds of things. Well, let me just say a little about that. I think there are some things you can do about that and I think one of them is if you (inaudible at 0:55:11.8) interesting and doing the therapy group (inaudible), sometimes in those kinds of groups you get some information about how to be clear about what you're feeling. It's a place where you can ask people how they feel about things? You can learn ...
 Where would you find one?
 Well, I don't know ...
 Well, there are several around. I don't know how much they cost but there's (inaudible). And also, [I'd just like] (ph) to encourage you because I agree and I feel, in a sense, somehow (inaudible) and I don't know quite know why. It feels, in a sense, useless for me to tell you this but I feel like for me it was very important (inaudible at 0:56:44.7) about me (inaudible). And I'd just like to encourage you (inaudible).
 (inaudible at 0:57:26.6)
 So (inaudible) and what it sounds like partly is that she doesn't know what they mean by that.
 [But it's true] (ph) so what you've got to (inaudible at 0:58:08.8) people think about you to let you think that about you.
 You thought about that.
 Yes, (inaudible at 0:59:00.4). Yes, it's time to stop, yes.
 It's really not believing that you can get the truth from them.
 Selfish:
 But you'd kind of like to have — not share it. You'd like to have it all the time.
 So, the recorder is on and I'm not gonna, you can tell me your name and uh all that.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  And what, do you know what might have brought uh. 
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Now, uh with this, yknow, absentee, this, with the um, now, we gave, we gave you several of, on this one, letter stating.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.  Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum. 
 Yeah.  Now, of course when you have that much on your plate and uh uh, yknow, then every little thing can uh magnify.  And -
 Um-hum.  And given that, have you been sleeping good?
 Sleep, uh-huh.
 But then you have good night's rest?
 Um-hum.  And, and how do you handle those?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  So, you are left alone uh, either neglected or deserted or something like that?
 And uh uh, so uh uh then what happens in the nightmare?
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.  So, although you have been sleeping more, you had not been resting like the way that you should, isn't that right?
 Yeah.  Okay.
 All right.  And uh uh because then, yknow, this is the situation you are in and uh when you have a, and uh either the home situation or the work situation, you're triggering something.  Okay?  Sometimes is causes a kindling.  Yknow, in fact you can get paranoid and then one kindles the other and one makes the other come to the surface and uh try to, and uh sometimes when the situation, stuff like that happens, yknow, like with [NAME OTHER], one little thing that he does, it becomes more of an opposition uh if he doesn't get all the attention of it.  So, because, yknow, being uh at that age, yknow, you pay it a lot of attention.  But when it comes to homework and all that, yknow, you, if he forgets to bring it and it comes to I just forgot, yknow, that's not a good enough answer.  [INAUDIBLE].
 It's a, and uh what we may have to do in that case is that uh, yknow, maybe get some uh assistance from the teachers that remind him that uh. They mind him. 
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  What you may have to do is uh make sure that you put it or somebody, yknow, puts it in his bag.  And uh, and, uh, yknow, because sometimes, yknow, they, even though the children have their school bag and uh, yknow, if uh, it can be quite habit and they take the book out.  When they finish everything, if they don't put it back immediately, then they forget that, yknow, as to where they kept it and all that.  And so you may have to, yknow, either you or his dad or his sister, yknow, one of you take a little bit of extra, yknow, effort because. 
 Yeah. Because if everything is entrusted only on you, yknow, you, you can do only so much.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.  Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.  
 It didn't do much of anything.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.  Okay.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Do you remember how much I gave him?  Was it five or 2.5?
 Uh-huh.  Then what we will do is try the 2.5.  Okay?  And uh see if, yknow, it will uh, uh, if, if, if it is helping him and actually he's keeping his hands to himself, the 2.5 should do the same thing.  Okay?  I gave you samples, huh?
 Yeah.
 Probably gave you - 
 Um-hum.
 We can try the Concerta.  
 Um-hum.
 This, this is what we will do, there are two medications - 
 Yknow, and uh I write you prescriptions for both.  One is called Concerta.
 And one is Clonidine.
 Yeah.  He's already taking Clonidine?
 Yeah.
 Okay.  Because uh, yknow, Clonidine um uh is, yknow, point one and uh you can give him uh, first we will go with Concerta.
 Okay?  And uh go with the 18 mg and uh uh see if there's any improvement.  You should see within a week's time.
 Okay?  And uh uh then if there is, then what we will do is just to titrate it and um uh get it together.  Okay?  And if you do not see, we can titrate it from 18, we can go to 27.  By that time, yknow, we'll be able to tell.
 Uh if it uh, if the improvement is minimal, that means that uh, yknow, we have to use the other approach. 
 Okay?  So, so, let's see what we can do.  And any other things going on?
 Um-hum.
 Hm.  Well, when there are things like this happening and uh with the uh children, there is a lot of responsibility.  If you are the only one, one who has to show that all day, yknow, it's, it's a joint effort.  And, yknow, if your role is that you do everything, including cooking your meal and all of that uh and, yknow, he doesn't uh give you enough support and all of that, then it becomes very, yknow, difficult.  So, so, let's see what we can do.  Okay?  And uh uh, yknow, the thing is when there is this situation of thing, yknow, it's, it takes a big toll on your uh emotions uh and uh everywhere you turn around there is something or the other.  Okay?  All right.  So, so, let's see what uh the situation is.  And anything else going on? 
 That you can think of?  Okay.  All right.  And how much medicine do you have?
 Okay, of course, yeah, uh, yknow, uh.
 Not right now.  No.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum, um-hum.
 Do you remember what are the things you take?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  What I'm going to do is, now, you have some breathing problems, is that right?
 Yeah.  So, there is a medication called Buspar okay, and I'm going to uh, it comes in five, 10, 7.5, 10, 15 and all that.   Take 5 mg three times a day.  And then uh uh let's see what uh, what happens.  It's very good for anxiety.  Okay?
 And, uh, uh, if, uh. 
 This will, yknow, uh get the anxiety component under control and -
 I'm, yknow, if the anxiety is better, if the mood improves, okay, mood and anxiety go together hand in hand.  Okay?
 Yes.  And, actually, uh anxiety is a precursor to depression, which it can also be considered as uh precursors for mood changes.  Okay?  And - 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  It's actually the, yknow, the bipolar depression fits.
 And uh, yknow, the bipolar is, especially the mixed type, yknow - 
 Is where you have uh uh significant emotional ability and uh uh, yknow, the, you can switch, yknow, with the minimum uh, this one um uh warning and uh then one day you can have umpteen, yknow, mood changes.  That kind of things.  Uh if it is a classic bipolar, it's uh the manic depression, it usually doesn't get, yknow switch that - 
 Abruptly and that quickly.  Okay?  And so let's see what uh we can do and 
 Well, even uh, we have the bipolar support group. 
 And also, yknow, one of the uh things here is if you can identify the type of things that uh make, yknow, mood uh go to one extreme or the other or the one side or the other, if you're able to recognize that, and that's what you're, in therapy with [NAME OTHER].
 You're here to talk about that.  Because uh and conflict once you recognize what the conflict is, okay 
 And then you have an easier way of the better way to tackle that. 
 Okay?  Uh and uh like the, yknow, then all of a sudden it's like a bombshell, yknow, the, you go to work and uh now all of a sudden this is what they want to do.  Um-hum.
 And so within uh a short period of time, yknow, it ends up giving you enough time to, yknow, go through and uh give them an explanation.  Okay?  Because uh that's what the [DEIDENTIFIED] is, is that.  You cannot say that, bring your person and talk to that person and an hour later say that uh, yknow, I'm going to put something in your file that is negative.  So, that's what happened here.  
 You see?  And uh when you think of uh, now, you have been with the [DEIDENTIFIED] how many years?
 12 and a half years.  And, yknow, to uh all of a sudden have that 12 and a half years go down the drain -
 And uh, yknow, the thing is, if you were not a good employee you would not have survived that long.  You see?
 And so you have done your job, you have uh, yknow, uh done what needs to be done by an employee.  Okay?
 And uh, yknow, everyone has difficulties.  Okay?  And uh uh, yknow, you are at a stage where there are a few extra things happening.  And family support is uh also dwindling.  You see?  And, yknow, it's a big burden to, yknow, to put on your shoulders.
 Now, does he come to any kind of therapy?
 Would he come?
 You can't 
 If you can bring him next time when you come, okay 
 Maybe you can uh, let's see what his understanding of the entire, yknow, family dynamics is and, and ways he can, yknow, step in and uh, uh give you just a little helping hand.  Okay?  You don't uh, you're a strong willed person, you can do a lot of things, but even the strong willed can falter.  Okay?  So, so, let's see what he understands, recognizes and all of that.
 Okay?
 All right.  So, uh, uh -
 I think what (inaudible - 0:00:03.3).
 Not necessarily, September 7th, Session 7 on TO. No, what we use them for is, there is some specific research done, sometimes they're kept on file because they are used for research at some later time. And we use them for consultation among the staff.
 Like if I'm, if I want somebody else's advice or help.
 Then I'll (inaudible - 0:00:30.0) with the tape or whatever.
 Yeah, we haven't been, we haven't set up much like that over the summer, with the movement and with everybody being on vacation -
 - (inaudible - 0:00:46.9).
 Now translates.
 (inaudible - 0:01:25.1).
 Of this week?
 You are without a date?
 So it kind of hurt.
 Well, what happened during the conversation?
 Yeah. But then you said you were going to feel her off whether or not you could go with her.
 Uh-huh, uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 It was subtle in terms of their reactions  -
 - but you knew how it hurt inside.
 (inaudible - 0:08:39.0)?
 Uh-huh.
 What did you feel like during then?
 If you want your job ...
 The silence  -
 - is becoming a little bit overbearing?
 And you've engineered the silence to some degree?
 How come that hurt so much?
 (inaudible - 0:14:43.5).
 And hurt?
 How was that real?
 How did she get (inaudible - 0:15:40.4)?
 You know, another thing would have been to offer her the door and sit in back with you too.
 It was something that you were concerned about.
 Yeah, but look also how you helped bring that one on.
 Well, if you had wanted her to sit by you, you could have offered her a seat.
 That wouldn't have been a big deal though.
 Okay. Well, I'm bringing it up  -
 - to you.
 As just a possibility in the future. I mean that's a casual way  -
 - socially  -
 - to get into that, get what you want.
 On a very small scale.
 (inaudible - 0:18:18.9)?
 Felt like you made some ground only to  -
 - lose it.
 Well, it certainly sounds like ...
 Yeah.
 That's your story.
 Okay. Well, in your whole thing with women I hear two different levels. One of wanting to make a good, one of one to make it with a woman  -
 - but I don't hear that so much as I hear the second thing which is wanting other people to know that you make it with women. Of wanting the prestige of (inaudible - 0:20:07.6).
 And that concerns you more then the former, right?
 Well, look, look at it, is that true or isn't it?
 Why not?
 It shouldn't be that way, but how is it?
 But how is it?
 Do you think that ...
 (inaudible - 0:21:07.9).
 Okay, okay. I think you've puzzled over it enough. But I'm also seeing that it's hard for you to admit that that is what it is.
 No it's not, it's not.
 I don't think that's attractive no.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, okay. But I think you're going to get a lot further in therapy  -
 - and a lot further with yourself period if you admit where you are rather then  -
 - pretending it ain't so.
 I think you have a lot more, I know you have a lot more power to change it or do something constructive about it once you have recognized  -
 - okay, what is the problem where does it stand?
 And that's why I want you to admit that.
 And then we can move on from there and do something about it. But it's like the whole problem so far has been kind of deals it over  -
 - so we don't know which of those problems we're dealing with, it's women  -
 - yeah, but which problem with women  -
 - and the possibility of a real relationship with one woman or (inaudible - 0:22:30.0) in your expertise and womanizing.
 I don't want you to talk about those people.
 Okay. This is just  -
 Okay.
 Okay, okay. That may be true, but I don't think that kind of thinking of what most people do is the way for you to get what you want, it just isn't a very ...
 Okay. So what do you want right now?
 Which is even more painful?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, they both are pretty immediate. When you mean immediate disgrace with your family or and the immediate getting further out of it  -
 - or out of touch with your business contacts.
 On a different what?
 I feel for you, I feel for you and one of my impulses was to think of somebody that you could take. Really, I mean I really feel sorry for you but on another level that's not what you're here for.
 You're here to get able to do those things yourself and able to live with the consequences of what you do.
 What particular girl?
 Jess?
 Okay.
 Well, what do you want to do about Susan?
 A little bit familiar with you?
 And it feels like it would be a bigger rejection?
 She's a very what?
 And plausible you mean that that relationship might work?
 She's the kind of girl that you would like.
 Okay.
 What does that mean?
 (inaudible - 0:28:44.2).
 I can see where if I were someone that was halfway interested in you, you confuse the hell out of me in terms of what you're saying and what you mean and what you want. And it would be very difficult for a girl to indicate any interest in you either because again you're giving them that brush off  -
 - I just bet you dollars to donuts that you're giving her half a, well you were this morning with the sitting down (inaudible - 0:29:35.3). And then quick sitting in the front seat, you're brushing her off right there.
 And she might be surprised to find out that you really are interested after that because I mean you've got those mixed behavior syndrome.
 Well, what can you tell? What do you know for sure? You're assuming that that means lots of things about you (inaudible - 0:30:07.9)?
 Well, if you're wearing rejecting black that's probably what you're going to see.
 I mean you think in terms of rejection or acceptance (inaudible - 0:30:19.4) and are continually fear of getting rejected. Well, if you're thinking about rejection all the time then you see something out there and you don't have your eyes on these big colors you may see that blue thing and think rejection instead of colors, you know, which just may have been giggly school girl have fun on the way down, you were assuming (inaudible - 0:30:39.4), that was the way to have fun, you know, rejection. But, I mean you're looking for rejection it seems like constantly and giving it off.
 So, it's not that surprising that the world happens that way to you because you're looking for it.
 Where are you at now?
 But see that doesn't have to be such an ultimately bad thing. Again, okay that's what you were doing there, you could move that another way by saying oh that's what I'm doing thanks I've got it corrected and then I'll have it.
 You could say that. I mean maybe that isn't altogether correct but that would help a lot.
 If you could work on that one thing.
 You don't feel that it would be great  -
 - if you did or you don't feel like doing it?
 You didn't feel what way about her?
 Okay.
 So what are you saying to me right now? What are you getting out?
 Well, look at yourself right now. You're wearing rejecting glasses in the fact that I can't see your eyes, it's very difficult to see  -
 Uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah. And I know, and I know you don't wear rejecting glasses at those times because it's not a big deal for you then.
 You're not on stage in terms of being accepted or rejected and she is somebody else's girl.
 We've gone through that part of it.
 But that we know that intends to, that's the most relaxed time in the world.
 In fact it would be probably be easier on some level for you psychologically, not morally  -
 - psychologically would be easier for you to have an affair with somebody else's wife.
 But that isn't the way, that isn't the way or your moral Catholic thing would give you all kinds of hang ups and that isn't achieving what you want to achieve anyway.
 You can't form somebody else's life very easily.
 I really don't think that that's your, that isn't a helpful question for you.
 We could sit here and discuss that for 20 years and you still may be in the rejected thing. I don't think that's the perfect most helpful way for you to get out of it, because we couldn't discuss the theory ... the theory and experience are two different things. Okay, one way to get experience a little bit faster would be to say how did you feel when I was throwing this whole thing at you? Were you feeling rejected by me a little bit?
 Yeah, and you looked rejected, you really did, I mean you were kind of hunched over a little bit and looking out the window.
 I felt like I, I felt it very important that I say something  -
 - to make you understand that I wasn't rejected you  -
 - to get you back out of that. And I want you to know I'm not rejecting you, I'm trying to help you through that thing. And gee I know the rejecting thing good because I've often had very, something very similar. People can say ten things to me and one thing sounds the least little bit negative and I jump on that and decide that they have got no good.
 You know, that they're critical of me.
 Well, one think that I have done with it is check off people who are really rejecting your knowledge.
 Well, like one thing that you could do with Susan is just call her up and ask her out. That would be one way to find out.
 Why? You won't be going otherwise, were you?
 Okay.
 If you don't put yourself on the line in that way, you are never going to get what you want out of that situation.
 You can't go out with her without asking her.
 You could sit around 20 years waiting for that one too.
 Okay.
 It's difficult to get out of your immobilization?
 And get to what you feel.
 Paralyzed.
 With her?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 You know what it reminds me ...
 Okay. I'm going to be a little bit philosophical but part of life is people saying no. Of your saying hey would you like to do so and so, no.
 Of such and such job.
 No, no.
 But it's painful and hell for you.
 And I suggest that you get some real experience ...
 But I think you need more.
 I think you  -
 - no, I really seriously do. In fact we might consider having one session here where you think of 40 different things that you would like and I'll say no to them. I've very serious.
 Okay.
 What I'm saying is you have got to get to the point where no doesn't hurt too much and it does now because a lot of people are going to say no.
 And if you just quit asking because people say no  -
 - you're not going to get what you want. You are just going to be more and more hurt by the fact that somebody said no. It reminds me of when I was one year, one summer between different years, my sophomore and junior year in college I had a terrible time getting a job and I had to go literally hundreds of people and ask  -
 - do you need anybody? No, no, no, no, no. And that got so painful but I finally got to the point where okay most people don't need, nobody, most people don't need me to work for them, right?
 I just have to find out who those people are and sort through them and not get hurt by that and I'll, because that's the only way I can find out who does need it. So, I finally went through that process and then I finally got to the one yes or the two yeses and in the hundreds and took my pick of the jobs but I wouldn't have had a job unless I kept pounding at it.
 One does it with a hell of a lot of things in life.
 That's what a hell of a lot to you then, to mean then.
 It felt like it did.
 Okay. What you're doing right you're putting that down and say well that's a nice little story but it's not true for me. It feels more ...
 What is a line forming? I bet you it's not much of anything is a line forming. I mean that's part of what you're doing with the rejection isn't it?
 You're alive right now. What are you feeling right now?
 (inaudible - 0:44:48.0)
 You're very annoyed at what? I don't want to talk about life in general right now.
 And that's a lot of your feelings.
 That's a big part of what you feel like.
 That could be or it is?
 Okay.
 See my feeling about what you're doing, one of the very concrete things that you're doing is cutting yourself from your own feelings, your own (inaudible - 0:46:19.3) by saying that could be that happens to most people, you maybe I  -
 - all of those, these are ways of cutting yourself off so you don't even know what your feelings are a lot of the times because your experiences with your feelings have been painful probably and that's part of it. But my perception of one of the big things that you can get out of being here is exploring your feelings, really exploring or finding out what those are.
 Getting more comfortable with them. Getting to be more of the master of them.
 You know feeling what they are and being able to do something about them. And give signals kind of take temperatures on your life or your feelings, look at what your feelings are about things. And then say okay what do I want to do about that?
 Uh-huh, uh-huh.
 Wait a second, wait a second. You're doing it right now in terms of distancing yourself from what I just said. What was your response to the thing that I just said about taking a temperature in your life of your feelings? And the thing that you do with distance to yourself.
 Okay. I appreciate the fact that you answered them directly and that's the way (inaudible - 0:48:15.2).
 Yeah, I was surprised that you
 I was surprised and glad that you used that word.
 Yeah, really you're able to do a lot of things. You're not a hopeless.
 (inaudible - 0:49:33.8).
 I think that would be great if you do that. I also hope she doesn't, she may.
 Then what (inaudible - 0:50:29.3).
 Okay, okay. But I want you to not I want you to try somebody else if she doesn't. I'm not saying try somebody  -
 - this weekend but that's a great way to get over rejection on some level. Are you uncomfortable right now?
 No.
 That's okay.
 So those are kind of two feelings that you fight about coming here?
 So that's part ...
 It's hard to have even one person, me, see the way you feel?
 It's not trivial to me.
 What does that mean to you? You want to get out okay. I hear you, I hear you.
 But do you hear me when I say it's not trivial to me?
 What does that do?
 And the best thing to do when you're uncomfortable is to leave, right?
 Well, I have an assignment for you. Would you sit here another minute?
 Okay. Because the uncomfortableness will go away if you sit here too and  -
 Yeah, I hear you. I realize, I realize it's uncomfortable. Maybe I've been particularly hard on you tonight.
 Is that the way you feel?
 Okay. I'll let you, you can go.
 Okay. Well, I think we've done a lot of work tonight but I just think once you leave right that instant you were.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 See you next week.
 Hope things go good.
 Okay, you do that. I mean that.
 Okay, we're rolling.  So, um, all [NAME OTHER] aside, the last couple of weeks, you haven't been feeling as well.
 And nothing you can think of that happened, you know that, that, uh, has contributed?
 Well, yeah, she, she has told me about that.  What do we think about that?
 Okay, that's honest.
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 And he looks fine?
 Uh -
 His beloved Jets and everything.
 Um, so, the, uh, like the Pixar movies, that must look pretty cool on that, on the -
 Oh, okay.
 Yeah, that's the new toy.  You know, we're very, we're very old school.  But anyway, um, what did your mom say, I mean, what's the -
 In terms of how concerned they are, how, you know, what's the -
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 I mean, I don't know all of the details but I know it's a very treatable form of cancer -
 It seems like they caught it pretty early, so that sounds all good to me, but I, I don't, uh, you know, she told me about it, but not all the details.
 Really?
 What?
 Um-hum.
 Isn't that un, unheard of in your 20s?
 Usually in the 20s, when people, you know, when they get, uh, cysts and stuff, it's, it's what they call fibrocystic breast disease where they, they form these lumps and cysts, but benign.  You, I could, I'm not, it's not my area -
 Um-hum.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 I, uh, I know you're a close family, but, on the, on the downside, when one person is -
 Not doing well, it seems to -
 We have tissues right there.  All right, so you started, you, you were doing fine for a while and now, and now you've been feeling depressed for a while.
 Okay.  Um, and you're only on that tiny bit, that, that 25 mg of Seroquel, right?
 You are on 50?
 Can you imagine being higher or you, you feel it would make you too tired?
 Okay, so it's not an option.
 All right, so it's not an option.  It's a bummer because it, it's very helpful sometimes but the side effects are limiting.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, the Seroquel, he was on a little more than you -
 And he seemed real good for a while where you were always not quite, you know, but you're on less.  But, then he started not doing as well, so I thought maybe we'd really landed on a good spot, but, but we have to keep working at it I think.  Now, what your mother asked me was about the Lithium and in October we tried going up to 3 and you, you said you actually felt worse.  I don't know how long of a time we gave that.  Yeah, we gave it a couple of weeks, actually.  We went up a smidge to 750 and you actually said, felt worse.  Um, and you were still cycling, and that's when we added the Seroquel.  So we've done, Abilify and Seroquel for you.  We have not done Zyprexa.  We've not done Risperdal.  We've not done Invega.  You remember I said to you Invega, the concern I have is that Risperdal and Invega are almost the same and they can elevate uh, prolactin levels, I mean, you might remember me saying that -
 I'm not, um, prolactin is what you secrete when you're going to have a baby, so, um -
 Well, it would suck if it were symptomatic, I mean if it's a little bit and it was asymptomatic, it would be fine, but if it's, if it's more than that, then, you know we're doing something that we don't want to do in an unhealthy person, so I'm, that's that one we're actually trying on [NAME OTHER].
 But I -
 I, I have a little more reluctance ironically to do it in a, in a young woman than in a, in a, in a guy.  Um, and there's other medicines that we, and we know already that, or at least we think already that antidepressants don't suit you.
 Although we haven't really tried that many, right?  Zoloft had a bad, that was, uh, bad, right?
 Wellbutrin was bad in [NAME OTHER], but we never really tried it in you.  And then this other group of medicines that are in the same family as Lamictal, other anticonvulsive medicines that we use like Trileptal and Tegretol.  So I guess I have to decide, uh -
 It's a bummer.  Remind me what happened with Zoloft.
 It was May.  Here I have you felt hyper?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  And there's a lore or a belief that Wellbutrin, which is a nice antidepressant, is less apt to cause that than a medicine like Zoloft, but it's not an absolute.  We have how long till you have to start school again?
 So we have time to try some stuff.  If I were to have your mom come in, what else should we talk about before we include her, because I wanted to, I know she wants to be included in this discussion about the medicines.  What else, what else should I know is going on?
 What do you mean, weird?
 Um-hum.
 So -
 So a little bit disassociated feeling?
 Like little separated from yourself a little bit?
 Well, normal people can have that experience, it's not, you know, um, a very unusual experience, but if you're having a lot, it's unpleasant.
 Um, how did it work out with the long distance relationship over this semester?
 So, say that again.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 To see if he was okay?  Uh-huh.  What made you feel that something was going on with him?
 Um-hum.  Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  Any other weird things happening?  Nothing else you can think of?  Or something that you don't want to talk about?
 Are these, do these weird feelings, worried about people, thinking about death, feeling disassociated, do they always correlate with feeling depressed?  Like when you're having these things, it's when you're kind of depressed?
 Um-hum.
 And what, what are you feeling at those times?  What do you think is, what, what are your thoughts are going through your head?
 Um-hum.  So you're spending a lot of the time during these days, during the day with these morbid thoughts?  So this is the kind of stuff that you were having well, before we even started, right?
 Yeah.  Um -
 What's that?
 Um-hum.
 Well it must be rotten to, to be having these feelings all the time.  Again, other people do have these feel, feelings, but not all the time, that's the difference, you're having them so much.  You're spending so much time during the day having these morbid feelings so we've got to knock them out.  Well, when you first went on the Seroquel, it seemed to help, lifted your mood, seemed like it was doing something good.
 Now when you first went on the Abilify, that happened, too, but then you got all antsy.  Right?
 Yeah.  Yeah, I see that, it, it, it kind of makes sense that a medicine in that category might be used.  Um, [NAME OTHER] was on Zyprexa which you were never on.  But that's, again, in a, in a, in a woman, it's very sedating, it can be very sleeking, um, [INAUDIBLE] usually, it just seems like [INAUDIBLE] don't have to worry about that.
 But, um, well, as much as you're having these thoughts, you, does your boyfriend know you're having them?  Yes.  You're family knows you're having them?
 Sometimes.  Do you feel you have enough outlets to talk about, you know, what you're going through?
 Right.  But, um, it's, sometimes the hardest part about having these kinds of thoughts, I mean, I think you're having symptoms.  I don't think these, it's important first to say when you have thoughts like this, it doesn't mean that those are real.  It doesn't mean, you know, they don't define you, it doesn't mean that we should give them proper weight.  In other words, you might think, okay, I'm going to, um, take a shower, I'm going to wear this pair of jeans and then, you know, then you have the morbid thought.  It's natural to give them all equal weight, but you shouldn't because we want to define this as in a normal thought, as a symptom, as something that's going to go away once we, we figure it out.  So that's very important, you know, I mean, and people have all kinds of thoughts that they shouldn't give equal weight.  When people are very insecure and they think that they're funny looking and everything, they're stupid or whatever, those shouldn't be given equal weight, you know.  And, uh, and this kind of thing should not be given equal weight.  So that's important, but still, one of the worse things about having these kind of thoughts is walking around with them and not being able to expel them, like sometimes telling somebody, talking about it, you know, and then not freaking out or anything, helps you do a little better, you know, like a little unburdened, and so it's, it is a burden to walk around all the time and have them and not being able to, to talk about it to anyone.  So that's a concern to me because your boyfriend's at a different school, you're not always with your parents, I mean, now you're on break, so that's good, but I think, would it give you permission to let people know you're having all these crummy thoughts.  You want to have your mom come in, can we talk about it a little bit?  Bring her up to speed or are you worried about making her nervous or upsetting her or anything?
 You've not been telling her about everything?
 Is that because you're embarrassed or because you don't want to -
 Uh-huh.  So you don't want to be the sick person?  Well, that certainly wouldn't require it.  I'm just trying to think of how we can help you, you know, deal with it better.  Could you figure out a way, I mean, if you write these things down, does that allow you to dismiss it more easily?  Does talking with your boyfriend about it help at all?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, but you could title it bad thoughts I probably shouldn't be having and you can write it down and then you can enjoy and say, well now I don't have to think about it anymore.
 What else could we do that might help, you know, you shake them off a little more easily?
 You could get your little digital tape recorder.
 No, you don't have to listen to it, you just -
 You just say okay, I had this thought and then, then you don't have to think about it anymore, because, you know -
 You filed it away.  We want you to be able to acknowledge that you're having them.  It is a symptom.  It's not going to be forever.  Um, we're going to figure out how to help you with that uh, but at the moment is lousy so we want you to be able to not be miserable all through your break, right?  Um, you, you feel if you tell your mother, she's going to worry about you and hold your hand and say how you feeling all the time and stuff?
 Well, we could tell her to not do that.
 Well, I'm going to let you decide what to do.  But, um, you could always leave a message on the machine.
 Say, okay, I'm having a this stupid thought I just wanted to share with you.
 All right.  Right.  Felt like sharing.  All right, well let's see if we can knock them out all right, I'm going to have her come in.
 Uh -
 Okay.  That's, that's fine.
 It's hot in here.  Yeah, do you know what happens?
 In the, in the corner, um, there was a lot of cold air coming down, so I had this heater and, um, I put that on and once it warms up, it really gets hot, plus when the heat does run, because this rooms colder, it runs a lot into this room so it gets real hot and then it gets real cold when it stops and then gets real hot again.
CG: Oh.
 I think because it has so many windows.
CG: There's a corner?
 So, um -
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 That's right.
CG: And so, because that's why we ordered the smaller bottle.
 Like it had some antidepressant properties?
 It felt better once we added that.  Well -
 We did it at the same time?
 No, I know, but what, which came first?  Lamictal was there first.
 I see.
CG: I thought that, that once you hit this 200 with the Lamictal, didn't we do that one time with [NAME OTHER] raise it and it just seemed like we just went back to what was considered the maximum dose for that, like [INAUDIBLE] -
 She's shaking her head.  So, uh -
CG: What was that?
 But -
 But, um, well if he, if he sticks with it, we'll check it, as -
 But anyway, despite that, I'd think about trying it because -
CG: Try what?
 That's weird.
CG: And it seems like -
 Um-hum.
CG: And a father -
 Who are you seeing?
 Oh, God.
 I thought you'd be seeing Vampire Weekend.
 Right, and so -
CG: So I think that that's what happened was it wasn't the milk on the table, it was more I'm really mad at you because you and I were all going to be here for the holidays and now [PATIENT NAME]'s not going to be here for the first night of Hanukkah so that's where it was coming from and that had nothing to do really with the bipolar, it happens to do with getting young adults who, I went to Florida on vacation -
 All right, but you know, again, let's -
CG: But what's funny is that he said a lot of things maybe that he shouldn't have said but the thing about it is that she also said things which, in some ways it explained it to [NAME OTHER] a lot of what he might have said was true, and a lot of what she might have said was she was very immature, whatever the hell she was saying, and a lot of that might have all been true, but there's the right way to do it.  And that's the thing.
 What I would tell you that, if, if you know [NAME OTHER] were to come here and you wanted a therapist's appointment, we would just kind of write this off to, you know, he's away in school, now he's back, their fighting, stop fighting, you know what I mean?
CG: Yeah.
 You're not excited to -
CG: I'm mixed about, that's why I asked you about the Lithium because the truth is, is that Lamictal and, the Lamictal and the Lithium are the best [INAUDIBLE] -
 Well, you know -
 Um -
CG: I know I'm not the doctor, but we're talking about Risperdal -
 Why?
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 I see, let me see them.
 Oh, terrible.
 Oh, that's terrible.  Is, is this the fingernail of a young lady?
 Here's, here's, here's, I used to bite my nails, too -
 And you know you go like this, and you pull it and go, uh, huh!  And it's like half gone, you know, oh, that's not a good idea.
 Yeah, you have better teeth, but you know what I did, around your age, plus, minus, you get a little nail trimmer, you know, for like $3, and you cut them nice and short -
 No, no, no.
 You cut, you cut them nice and short and nice and rounded -
 And when they get a little longer, and you can't say you cut them nice and short, somehow I was able, just by doing that, to get out of that habit of biting them.
CG: I don't think that's going to do it.
 So it's not an aesthetic thing, it's a nervous thing?  Could we give you something else to -
 Some, maybe you could start smoking cigarettes.
 How about gum?
 Yeah, some chaw.  How about gum?
 How about a binky?
 Uh -
CG: I mean, I don't know, like you said, I, um -
 Um-hum.
CG: And like you're reaction can be either A, B or C, I'm going to tell you the action is, what would your reaction be, what is your action -
 Well, we could stop it on a dime.
CG: It, so you can, you know how it is, will you know, well you know sometimes we have to give it a chance, what would you say give it a chance, that she started out Wednesday -
 Because there's other options, you know, there's adding another anticonvulsant like -
 You take it twice a day.
CG: Forty so it's -
 But -
 It seems like, I, I just have this impression, this vibe that it seems like this is the missing, for example, I think we could have her on twice of Seroquel and that might be that, she might do better, if she was on more, but she can't tolerate more.
 It did replace the Klonopin.  So, but again, if we get you real good, then you might not need it again, a young -
 Person doesn't usually need it [INAUDIBLE].  So, you, we might be able to do that, but, um -
 You, you're taking 50 right?  We could probably lower you to 25, add the Geodon.
 I know.
CG: The Seroquel 75 -
 Do you know about classical musical?
 It's making me look classy.  I think, that [NAME OTHER]'s hot, but I can't remember.
 Really, did it make you classy?  Well -
CG: Don't you take scuba diving next semester?
 Not with this, I don't have any samples, unfortunately, I have a ton at the other place.
CG: Ugh.
 Do you, is, do you, hit the place where you get, uh, reimbursed, for prescriptions?
CG: Yeah, I mean we probably did, but then now because of this, the time of the year, it starts all over again on [DATE], so I could go do that there.
 Do you pay a percentage or you pay a copay?
 Do you pay a percentage or a copay?
CG: Um, I'm supposed to pay a copay, but if it's not a generic, then it's the highest copay.
 All right, so let's start at 40 twice a day, the key is you have to take it after eating, so that's why -
 Take it after breakfast and dinner.  See this is for AM and this is for PM.
CG: Oh, you have to have full meals?
 Yeah.
 And, and, and, in fact, um, not just like a cookie, but they really say, like calories, you know, like 800 or 12, you know, like a real meal.
 Which ones are they?
 Which, which meals do you eat?
 So eat a real breakfast.
CG: You weren't even eating two meals a day?
 Right so eat, eat a real breakfast and then take it and eat a real dinner and then take it.  Start tomorrow morning.
 Don't start tonight.  And, and knock the Seroquel down to 25.
 And then let's see how that is.  So Geodon 40 twice.  Let's, we'll try it.
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 Be proudly, just proudly display that you're a Geodon patron.
 Oh, really, what are you going to see?
CG: No, I mean -
 No.
 I haven't seen a movie in a theater in about a year.
 Terrible.
CG: We're going to try to see, it only gets the new movies, now.
 Um, should I give you scripts for other stuff?
CG: Yeah.
 Hello.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Sure.
 Right. Kind of external structure —
 Oh, I see. You put it in the pasta?
 Huh.
 Like one margarita?
 Do you think you couldn't read them?
 Yeah. And, also, I'm sure it's not being sure what gets you so down. [00:07:48]
 Physically weak.
 Sounds like it's as though you're sick with something.
 I mean physically sick with something.
 Right, no, I get it that that's not what it is, but
(Laughter)
 You're still having your migraine medicine as usual? No?
 Sorry. When did you stop? You probably told me and I don't remember.
 I see.
 And is that something that washes out quickly? Like, that you can take for two days and, if was going to help, it would help, and then you could stop? I mean, as opposed to something like an antidepressant where you have to take it for a few weeks or a month before it kicks in?
 I guess what I'm wondering is whether if you would like purely for experimental purposes and diagnostic, I guess what I really mean is diagnostically, to take it and see if it helps with any of the stuff that you've been feeling. [00:11:05]
 When you were taking it? Yeah. OK.
 Right.
 Do you like the mechanism?
 Right. [00:12:33]
 What happened on Saturday night?
 Did you know her from school?
 What were your thoughts about that?
 Yeah, a lot of this stuff that you're describing from over just the last few days sounds like it's to do with productivity, I mean feeling kind of jealous, I imagine, sort of bad by comparison to her and bad about not having gotten, you know, stuff done you wanted to get done. And I think maybe you had a memory like not having the job start, like, I don't know, whatever else it is, you've got to have the impression that you feel productive working. And I don't know about the lunch, but I guess I wondered if you felt like you just fucked it up, I mean, like what you could have known or couldn't have known, so it was spoiled. Like, you know, you were, this was something else you were trying to do and are usually competent at and I guess I wondered if you feel like you'd screwed it up.
 Right.
 No. No, you sound pretty frustrated about it. [00:18:35]
 I mean, that's like a way that, even when things have been bad, I think you've been able to sort of care for yourself.
 Oh no.
 I see.
 Right. Right. But when you cook your own, it's different.
 Sure.
(pause) [00:20:01]
 Talent wasted on you not your work.
 I mean, like I get that's part of the idea with, taking a prescriber. [00:23:37]
 Did you find out what the deal is with the insurance and this?
 This is strange. I have never heard of it being so difficult to find out, like, what your benefits, what a person's benefit information is. Like if it's usually, as with insurance, dealing with insurance companies goes, not a terribly annoying thing.
 But I mean, I think Jeff is better at figuring these things out than I am, so hopefully he'll be able to help. [00:26:34]
 Uh huh. (chuckles)
 Hmmm.
 I would imagine that had to do with the content of what I was saying.
 Here? Or —
 And?
 What do you make of it?
 Could the mechanism be an operative in paralyzing or slowing your ability to think about sort of various symptoms and effects that you're having?
 What if it were true, what if you were more resistant and scared to go back than you have been thinking?
 I know what you mean. In a way, I guess you could call them worries, but that —
 Yeah, like they're these kind of fantasies that are a bit intrusive and they kind of involve — I wonder if that is exactly what is difficult here. You're dealing with some sense of having to, or maybe you're wanting to, like, explain yourself.
 What, what do you? Like, what's with the, I'm not quite sure what you're coming to.
 I think this kind of stuff here can be, and, it doesn't matter whether you think about it here or somewhere else, I think that stuff is very hard to think about. I think it's, you're really scared and you really have to work hard to try to overcome and think about things like school or what's making you feel kind of depressed. Or, you know, what upset you in the conversation with Katie or something like that.
 (chuckles) You mean, thinking about like that kind of stuff? Psychological kind of stuff?
 (Laughs) Sometimes, I guess, I wish, I mean. — I don't want to say that sometimes it works that way and sometimes, in my experience, it doesn't. You know?
 Uh huh, yeah, and then, I don't think. [00:39:10]
 I bet if you thought a little further about it, it would seem more to do with, like, just not wanting to.
 How come?
 Do you mean like to know how depressed you really feel?
 Again, like, it's hard to know how it really is.
 How does that work it out? I mean, look, I'm not saying it's not good to put the past behind you when you can, it just hasn't seemed like, with a lot of this stuff, you can. I would like to be wrong, you know? But, when you say, "Geez, I just seem to be getting hit with these sort of waves of depressive and sick-type feelings that seem psychological and it seems to be happening more, and I feel down and have more trouble around eating, and there's a bunch of things I'm really scared of that keep cropping up. And I have these sort of intrusive fantasies about school life," that doesn't sound like stuff you can sweep under the rug, stuff it in a closet and forget about it. [00:42:37]
 Writing, you mean?
 Sure.
 Well, I think in any case, you're explaining yourself. I think you have really mixed feelings about doing that.
 Just that you're being repetitive about feeling down, it might not make good literature, but if that's how it is, if it is depressing to be feeling it all the time, it's depressing to be feeling that way all the time, whether you're conscious of it or not, I think. You know? Or if your mood is being affected by the weather or you're avoiding something in talking about the weather, I can't tell, but either way, not knowing about it, I don't think really changes it much.
 Sure. It's terrible. I mean, it'd be great if this stuff weren't happening and if you, the journal didn't help you feel sort of, I think, more in touch with things you're feeling and how you're seeing things. It'd be great if you didn't need that stuff or if it didn't help.
We're going to stop for now, but we'll talk more next week.
 Have a good night. Take care.
 And I really don't think he's working, so.
 Like what was your problem?
 M-hmm.
 Do you mean you weren't doing things that you want to be doing?
 M-hmm.
 Is it... 
 M-hmm.
 Why not?
 Because it's more stressful on you knowing than you... 
 ...haven't?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Just what are you scared about now, is this about the same things?
 M-hmm.
 Well what if you're not? What if you aren't capable, really aren't capable of writing those papers?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 I wasn't like -Yeah, I was asking to more think about why you're so afraid of this eventuality that you weren't even going to write any paper at all or even... 
 ...write an even worse one, I mean? Or to say, well you're so scared that you'll write a bad paper... 
 ...that... 
 You're afraid to write any paper because it may be a bad paper?
 And not one of them, you said because?
 Yeah, it wasn't a feel good and so that's too bad. (both chuckling) But no, I mean address...somehow, it has to do with this thing that, what if you do write a bad paper... 
 ...what then?
 Yeah, you'll feel bad.
 That would be too bad.
 M-hmm.
 So he would think less of you and if you wrote that bad paper he ought to think less of you... 
 ...and so he'll react to it? [0:08:42.6]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm. So this is another thing in being sick and everything is just a lot of being trapped in... [overlapping voices at 0:10:44.3]
 Is there a cure for this cold?
 Or is it in your judgment that this is just the way it is?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, do it.
 So that's true.
 Yes.
 What do you mean?
 Well did you get in a fight with them even though you were planning on doing it anyway?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 So you think it's something you should do?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, right, yeah.
 M-hmm.
 So I was going to say, what...what happens to you is kind of like, there he is, he's saying things that like you consider really wrong... 
 ...incorrect and also very difficult for you to handle. And where is your problem with men, I mean is it, can we not ignore him or not shut it off or... 
 What bothers you?
 Right.
 So he's expect - demanding you to act in a way that you don't believe in... 
 ...really or act out of emotions that you don't have?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah. It doesn't clarify anything for him to feel so strongly about them... 
 ...it doesn't push you more over to one side or the other?
 What's it do for instance?
 Right. Yes, why do you keep in between?
 Sure.
 M-hmm.
 Well isn't there any possible way of your acting out, if you're the person in the middle and they're not allowing you that... [inaudible at 0:18:23.3] ...was for each other, whatever it is that you are for that focal point intersection?
 Do you see how your worries - that you're making it easier for them to do all that, is what I mean? [silence from 0:18:39.1 to 0:18:48.7]
 And then what do you do?
 So you basically defend Murphy to your father?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well why does he stay in the same room with it?
 Then I gather you don't really, feeling it's true that they're going to attack him and all but it's... 
 [overlapping voices at 0:22:11.4]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well they're a thousand miles away... 
 ...and I guess they just don't bond with him?
 He doesn't understand how little they bother you, is that what you mean or that although they affect your life beyond the immediate bothering... 
 ...you're thinking?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 So the situation is that Murphy hasn't, doesn't realize or doesn't understand when you tell him this he's not convinced... 
 ...is that what it amounts to? He's not convinced that they have no influence on you?
 [inaudible at 0:24:18.9]... 
 So are you asking for a better way to convince him or what?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Every time they're nasty it's a blow to your hopes... 
 ...of which you still haven't given up?
 M-hmm.
 So even though you assure him you aren't really assuring him of the right thing and it's no wonder he doesn't believe you?
 Because you're saying they don't affect me... 
 ...and that's patently not true even though in more specific... 
 ...ways that... 
 ...it's true, I think?
 [About your parents and things, yeah.] (ph) Uh, well I think that like Murphy, just before we leave that... 
 ...seems like if that's so and that the reason, well a possible reason that he's not believing you is because you're not really being accurate about, to him about what you feel towards them and he can see that.
 Um, one thing to do is to be more accurate and be more careful about what it is you say so that it does fit... 
 ...and that I mean, and so you aren't contradicting yourself in that way you know?
 Um, and if that doesn't work I guess there's, that's another problem which might, it sounded before like it was the problem now, which is what you do when someone isn't convinced?
 By the thing that you that you're saying honestly, um... 
 ...just something to think about I mean for you.
 But you're confused about the other one... 
 ...tonight with... 
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well aren't you going to allay your sense of obligation?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Saying anything in the sense of anything about your emotional life... 
 ...it will get used against you?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well it doesn't sound like that to me, it sounds like you can't talk to them about your emotional life... 
 ...which leaves a lot of... 
 M-hmm.
 So your aim now is to evade those, all those questions?
 I'm sure. Well is it worth it to you? Or else are there ways of changing that so that they don't have that chance?
 And I'm granting that you can't go telling them you're emotional life and is it worth it to you to go through this other thing, when you smile and say, "it's fine"?
 I mean is it?
 Yeah?
 And if it is are there ways you can make that easier for yourself, in some sense to give you some kind of rewards out of it, like leaving them those openings for questions, telling them the facts, so is there? 0:33:29.5]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Why don't you want to lie to them?
 M-hmm. Well don't you think what they can do is to doing a lot of half lying?
 M-hmm.
 Right.
 Oh, I'm not talking (ph) about lying. See I think half lying is very dangerous... 
 ...because you don't, I mean forget what you're doing... 
 ...inside, it's the worst and it's, um, and you can (ph) feel good about yourself.
 I mean you work it, one works it so... 
 ...that it's possible to feel good about one's self through great work...working around with which you're very bad (ph) to get into but... 
 ...it's not about worrying or even, I mean it's more just to think about what that would mean than it is a recommendation.
 Yeah.
 You mean really kind of defiant, just...being very, very split off in that?
 Oh?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. So you aren't going to have but there's nothing to say that you can have any kind of deep relationship that's satisfying... 
 ...primary (ph) emotional kind of thing with them?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well what about doing that?
 You don't know whether they could - you don't know whether you could really do that or you don't know whether they could?
 You don't know if they have the capacity to, you mean?
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Well are you prepared for them not being able to answer you the way you'd like?
 Or for that discussion to be, the process of that discussion [not to go that you'd] (ph) want to see, which sounds like you're clear about maybe for them to say whatever the truth is, for them to tell the truth? You know like for there to be... [overlapping voices at 0:41:40.5]
 And what would happen to you then?
 What would she say, I mean what would - then what would happen, she'd yell at you, what would happen to you?
 M-hmm. [0:42:48.8]
 And what would happen then, would you then say to yourself, "well I really tried to settle things" would you have the capacity? And then like if they don't would that be like a final meeting of it and would you get fucked about it?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Though (ph) those are separate?
 So that, and she might have come to those realizations and not be willing to do anything about them... 
 ...right? And that is not one thing?
 M-hmm.
 What do you mean emotionally presumptuous of you?
 M-hmm.
 Want (ph).
 And what kind of, is that kind of hierarchical thing is a good arrangement? I see that like that part of that I agree with what you said, she would be probably shocked and scared a lot.
 But should she be? Should she... 
 I don't think that she should.
 Right.
 And you won't be able to know that.
 M-hmm.
 Good (ph).
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 But where are you now?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Well she has to be aware of the fact but she doesn't have to be aware of the reasons in the way that you are... 
 ...and that makes it a pretty different fact.
 But are you willing for the different outcomes... 
 ...and are you willing to face it then?
 Oh (ph).
 Is it?
 Do you mean [after all this?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 Because it's subject to being not what you're hoping for or what... 
 ...and what would it mean to you if you didn't connect this time... 
 ...this time?
 M-hmm.
 Well on what level? There's honesty at different levels, with different levels of content...I mean.
 Well who has to change for that to happen? [0:52:15.2]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Communication on the level of...
 ...trust, yeah, where, I know, on the level of communication of an emotional relationship?
 M-hmm. Why would you take that to say, "well they, I can't have that kind of relationship with them maybe, maybe forever or at least for the immediate future", which is very heavy, which is a very heavy thing but it's a different conclusion, it's somehow different than just being torn apart by that, like deciding it can't be your goal with them, I mean...work from that? [0:55:26.0]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. On the other hand if you aren't going to do the little goody things like that could get you back, there's a chance that this, I mean could that talking about this could get you back to that kind of relating, there's a change that it could explicitly make it seem like it will be much more difficult... 
 ...to get back that kind of relating or any chance that it would, that one of the bigger conclusions you'd draw from that would be that kind of relating isn't possible... 
 ...in them.
 So you stand to lose or gain a great deal and you seem to be very afraid about, so it appears we're losing it... 
 ...and I don't see what this middle ground you're in now has to recommend it over that.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 So like specifically what does that mean to you?
 M-hmm.
 Well... [1:01:36.6]
 Theoretically you're right and I think it seems to you like it's an empirical question in every case though? Uh, there's nothing I think in the world that, that null-cates (ph) against that, that rule, but doesn't it depend on their capacities and yours and that's changed in circumstances, you think?
 So it would be trust transforming through a parent and child relationship into one of the deep relationships that you have with somebody, with some people, very many people other than your parents?
 Yeah.
 Yeah... [overlapping voices] [1:03:38.4]
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 I guess that helped.
 Do you?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm. So are you willing to find out she can't though or couldn't or that there were signs against it at this time, or would you well having to keep it suspended and potential?
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Well is that the way you want to have this decision be taken... 
 ...on the basis of this circumstantial thing (ph)? [1:06:31.2]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Do you have a clearer sense of what you want to do then, that I mean if you are talking about it?
 M-hmm.
 Do you have a sense of what if it doesn't work and what, how you'll feel and what you'd want, if you wanted to think about doing or...kind of beyond that thing?
 Yeah.
 Good (ph).
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah (ph).
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 So all the things that are going to come up, first that you have an immediate reaction to, you also have things to say that... 
 ...that are more clearly where you're really at?
 I've got to stop.
 Do you want to meet me next week... 
 ... at the same time?
 Perhaps. You went to the worse doctor, it didn't help?
 Don't go to him again.
 Yeah, I finally, I started asking.
 I said, "Who is on?" I'd say, "Who is on walk-in?" And then they say, "Dr. Johnson." And I say, "I'll take anyone else."
 And they're very understanding in fact.
 But the worst thing is when you go in and you say, "I have a cold." And then he examines you and he says, "Yes, I imagine you're experiencing a cold." (both chuckling)
 You know, "Infection around the ears and stuffed up feeling and sore throat."
 Yeah.
 [inaudible]... 
 Okay.
 Well I saw it through a funny (ph) poem and you'd rather write that, which was basically offered but I had a couple of, um, things that reminded me of Moby Dick and so I thought I would read it over... 
 ...and affirm it. I was reading it and it's just, it's so long. I mean I'm kind of half into it where it is.
 I don't like him. I don't like him, he has in this first part he has all these crappy, ironic jokes that, (chuckling) you know what I mean, just this... 
 ...so this, his cute humor is turning me off.
 M-hmm, right. But he is not, the one thing though he really turns a phrase well, just specific little... 
 ...nice little phrases, so that's keeping me going.
 Well I've been checking it again, so I read it in my junior year in high school and checking against my junior year memories and it's keeping me entertained.
 Okay, I'll see you... 
 ...at two. [1:16:10.4]
 Well [PATIENT NAME], how are you doing today?
 Well you?
 Well, do you want to tell me about it?
 What happened?
 Uh-huh. 
 You started fighting?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 She's gone back to [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Now where did you all stay in [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
 Where is she going?
 Oh all the [DEIDENTIFIED] didn't get water? 
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.  
 She has a trailer?
 Oh great.
 Uh-huh.
 Gave you something to do.
 Uh-huh.
 What happened?
 Oh.
 Uh-huh.
 What do you mean back home?
 Do you want to tell me about that?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh, uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.  Well you can understand that.
 Wait a minute, you mean you were depressed there?
 Well, can you tell us about that?
 Oh.  
 What kind of treatment did you try?
 Do you remember the names of the...?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Did any of them, were they of any help to you?
 Once a month.
 That worked pretty good?
 How much weight did you gain?
 Oh my God, you gained a lot of weight.
 Well, we'll have to take note of that.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Which medicine did that?
 Okay dear, I'm sorry about that interruption.
 Let me ask you, active doing what?
 What did you do?
 Uh-huh.
 Oh, your sister teach exercise?
 Are you a good dancer?
 You used to be a good dancer.
 You did.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 That part makes sense.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Did you get confused or what?
 You didn't get any pleasure out of it?
 Uh-huh. 
 Do you have a lot of preachers in your family?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Successful people.
 What kind of problems?
 Uh-huh.
 Authority.
 To lower it over you.
 Yeah, she'd stick you in the hospital.
 Abused you how?
 How?
 Oh, stick you in the hospital.
 That was embarrassing.
 Wait, he told you to commit your sister?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Uh-huh.
 What did you do?
 Wait a minute, you committed your sister?
 She didn't believe you.
 Oh no. 
 That is interesting.
 Uh-huh.
 Turn the tables.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Well, let me tell you this now, was she a church woman? 
 A big church woman
 All day and all night?
 What did the psychiatrist say?
 What was on top of her head?
 I'm asking you.
 Oh.
 Uh-huh.
 Older sister.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay, I'm sorry about that. 
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.  Well now, let me ask you, how is the medicine working?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 So do we have a good balance now?
 Okay.
 Well...
 Well let's just assume that we just need the medicine.
 Let's keep it like we're doing.
 Okay, well good seeing you.  We'll keep the medicine like we're doing and what are we doing, meeting once a month?
 Oh, okay.
 Right, but you haven't been out of your medicine have you?
 Oh, you've been calling in for it.
 All right, well we'll go ahead and get some more.  We'll keep everything just like we're doing.
 To [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Let me ask you this, why are you all so crazy about [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Oh, that's the only reason?
 Well, Is it...
 Is it partying, the drinking, the dancing, being up all night, is it all of that?
 Uh-huh.
 All night.
 Yeah, they, you all are really partying kind of people.
 Yeah, now how did you become such a good dancer?
 You did?
 So your sister pursued it
 Dancing.
 Did you see the Dream Girls movie yet?
 You haven't seen it?
 Oh, okay, that's a good movie.
 Well that was good.
 Right, I understand.  You were just a baby.
 Okay dear, well really good talking to you.
 And what we'll do, we'll keep the medicine and everything as we're doing. 
 Session 1
 I'll just let you start wherever you want to. 
 Well why don't you talk about what's bothering you. You see the thing is I'll let you chose what you want to talk about. Talk about whatever you like to kind of think about or like to change or something; anything. 
 You would think a lot in terms of how they think about you.
 Never in your whole life. [0:03:00.0]
 You mean its puzzling why? I suppose it's very depressing too.
 Do you? 
 Whether it's that or whether it's something else. 
 Doesn't seem like everybody would not be attracted to you because of your deformity. 
 Once she told you one thing and now she's telling you another thing.
 It leaves you not knowing what to believe and having a hard time getting that out of your mind that she said originally too. [0:05:58.1]
 What you mean is that when the men are intelligent you say to yourself it can't be just the deformity that they responding to unless their responding to something else in me. 
 And you feel bad about that but you don't know what it is. 
 You've been trying to tell yourself that.
 But it sounds like there's a whole lot of you that finds it very hard to believe that. 
 Well I'm not sure if I do. I guess I wanted to ask you a question.
 Well first of all I don't know if you realize that I'm blind. 
 And so that makes me curious. I don't know what kind of deformity you really have. Like how visible is it? [0:10:01.9] 
 I see. And then does your back look crooked too? [0:11:03.4]
 Is the rest of your body ok; your arms and your legs?
 I guess the other thing I wanted to ask you before you go on is I never know when people come in here and notice that I'm blind if they have some kind of feelings about that. If you feel uncomfortable? 
 Ok. I suppose that having a deformity yourself you realize sometimes people have a reaction to it. That's just what you've been saying. [0:12:04.6]
 So I always try to check out with people and say if you do have any kind of feelings about that it's good for you to talk about that. 
 Ok.
 Yeah. So that's what they've told you. Like that's the way out of this. So you've been trying that but that's pretty hard to make that work when you just don't feel that way. Like it really isn't that simple. [0:14:07.6]
 You mean maybe you could get that kind of image of yourself. 
 Why do you say it that way?
 To kind of make up for that. 
 You should be the judge.
 Yeah. 
 Maybe that's the way to go to kind of say well yes it's true. [0:17:05.4]
 So that's maybe the way you want to go but you just don't see really how to do that. I guess one thing you said before; when you said something about oh you've heard all this before. Well I could see about that but I guess what concerns me about that is that I don't want you to be worried about entertaining me or what I think is trite. I feel better if you talk about what would help you most no matter what I think of it. [0:19:04.4]
 Because that would help you much more. 
 Well I guess you're saying is the general kind of thing is like feeling deep down in yourself and having all sorts of ways if I just felt this way maybe this would go away. If I accept it, or if I accepted myself and forgot all about men, all these kinds of things, but it's like you're miles from those things. And not seeing any way to get there and not knowing what to do about the way you do feel. [0:20:19.8]
 Like it didn't work again and that's even more discouraging. 
 What do you mean over react? 
 Oh I didn't know.
 First time that you mean you felt just really clearly physically attracted to anybody.
 You weren't attracted to him on that basis.
 Yeah.
 I see. You mean it's embarrassing to tell me about it.
 And you're very jealous.
 You don't really rest. 
 Let me get this straight now. What's happened is you saw him once...
 Three times. But then after that now whenever you see him its like he almost acts as if it never happened. [0:26:06.3]
 And you feel... 
 She was a push over. 
 In comparison to her that he's paying a lot of attention to.
 You can't point to anything but you still suspect it. And just watching him talk to these women. [0:27:06.1]
 There's somebody who cares about me, who was attracted to me. 
 You mean that it wasn't true in the sense that the way he's acting now. Well I mean it isn't that is wasn't totally true but he didn't really care about you. It's almost like you're saying look here I fooled myself again. 
 Got taken in again. 
 I mean at least it would be comforting if he were dumb. 
 But him being smart...
 Must be good judgment. Yeah. Sort of like saying since this really intelligent man thinks so lowly of me that that's really how it is. It's almost like having an affair with him and having it end made you feel even more unattractive. [0:31:29.7] 
 Which even makes you feel worse. There's a quality in there two of like I don't have any kind of qualities that make me even hold back anything. Whenever anything comes my way I just stamp out any affection. [0:32:13.4] 
 You learned that. 
 Oh I see. I see. 
 You're new at it or you haven't had enough times to see what would happen if you did various things. [0:33:02.8]
 But not when you can't get that thing out of your mind. You still feel very inferior. 
 And jealous. 
 But it's that intense feeling.
 Worried about letting yourself do that and then becoming more unattractive. 
 Yeah. Yeah.
 You can't predict. Yeah. It makes you very tense wondering as well. You just can't know in the morning until you're actually in the situation. 
 I just know that you took them. [0:36:01.1]
 No. No. No. I don't hear the results of them.
 No. No.
 So wrong?
 Get angry with her.
 It's kind of a problem but not too bad.
 In that sense...
 Yeah. Yeah. In that sense I guess you're saying it is painful. [0:38:02.0]
 No that's quite alright. You don't need to...
 That you're good looking; your face right?
 To learn something. 
 Was it? Was that part of it?
 Yeah. Did you learn something?
 You doubt it. 
 But that's another thing that you wanted to get some more experience at and so this was a chance. 
 You really feel like he thinks you're a fool. 
 You wish that you hadn't just jumped in.
 Wait. Is this the most recent person you're talking about?
 The other person. 
 So in a way it helped you in the long run to have it happen.
 Like it made you think about things you never would've even considered before. [0:42:02.1]
 It didn't sink in. 
 Just feeling kind of bad about all this.
 Yes.
 Yeah. That sounds like one of the big things. What you don't have is kind of people having told you even how they react to you. It's like you just don't know so it makes it very hard to know how to act differently. 
 They won't be honest with you.
 It's almost like your question gets dismissed in a way.
 And you don't really believe that's how they really feel but don't know what else to say after that. 
 But is there some kind of way in which you're down on yourself for coming here; to therapy? 
 I see. I see.
 Well there's something about the fact that you need to come here makes you realize how bad off you feel. [0:46:04.6]
 By yourself you mean. 
 When you're by yourself you mean.
 But now that you're here you mean somehow it's hard to think of enough to say. 
 You wish it didn't matter to you. They can think what they like. 
 But you are the kind of person who's really very sensitive to what other people think and can be very hurt by that. [0:48:00.9]
 You mean like with men you mean?
 But some too.
 Like that hurts less but it sounds like there's something about them being intelligent in judging you that really hurts. That really makes... [0:49:11.0]
 It really makes it seem final.
 One thing I hear you saying a lot it sounds like you do a lot of struggling with yourself like you're sort of caught in a lot of struggles. Like I feel this way but I want to feel another way. [0:50:07.3]
 That's very...
 Sure. Sure. 
 Well...
 Client 0324 - 006 interview number 15. 
 Oh, you felt like you were walking into a (inaudible at 1:16) or something. 
 Are you not doing anything? Are you saying that I understand that feels like an old pattern recurring and that that's probably depressing, but I'm wondering like if you also feel that this means in some way you're on your way downhill into something bad again kind of. If there's any portent or omen or quality about feeling this way.
 In context that would sort of be the way you describe your lifestyle to stay here. It would be just sort of maintenance function and minimally satisfying.
 The feeling I get is, like, if you're traveling to the west coast and something happens to the battery in your car and you have to stop every 300 miles to get your battery charged and the charge never holds, you know. And it sounds like these up periods are somewhat the same way. Like, they never take hold enough to prevent you from sort of sinking down again. (5:59)
 And you look...
 It's like running out of steam, just really mixing car metaphors up, but running out of steam, like, sets you back rather than just having you lose whatever.
 Why is that? I'm not sure I know. It sounds like there's, I'm missing a fact or something.
 I don't remember hearing anything about that. Mostly your mother. (7:53)
 It sets just a certain ugly tone to it all.
 Sort of human being type function.
 It sounds like, at least, if I were a guest in that house, it would make me feel thoroughly unwelcome. I mean, sort of like a stray piece of dust that would have annoyed her like everything else.
 Gee, what a boon to have somebody. It sounds like you're sort of really intolerable after all that stuff. (21:59)
 Do you know what was in that fear? That hate follows pretty easily. I mean, you know, hate follows gleaned from what you said, but the fear doesn't so much you know what it was? 
 To your father? Is this, like, one thing she does sort of divide you or attempt to divide you from your father?
 Now the way you describe her being there just has this quality of being constantly pursued in addition to simply not being able to get anywhere by yourself. Like, she was always after you or she was after her kid, which in some way seems, you know, like it does affect you when you see a mother beating on her kids in some way. (26:03)
 Yeah, I kind of wondered like it sounded like.
 How you survive in that household right?
 Oh, two and two and two and one couldn't possibly please. You have a feeling that if they go to heaven they're going to be mad because Christ has a wrinkle in his robe or something like that. (27:52)
 Well, I guess the kind of thing that's horrible enough in itself, but it struck me like that probably in addition to just being horrified in general principle is probably maybe awakened some of the kind of feelings that you have being under that woman's control or whatever in some ways. Like it touched you even more deeply than just seeing another person's suffering.
 Should have obeyed your instinct kind of. (29:39)
 You mean it felt like he was saying boy, you know, you really asked for these catastrophic things? (31:49)
 I guess the thing that struck me is that it must make you feel as though you have no where to go. I mean, okay you have two physical places you could go, I suppose. You can or that you can go that are nominally home, but it's like psychologically it feels like, to me, that there's like nowhere for you to go. You can't go to your mother, can't go there and this guy cut you off too and I don't know how much you want to use him or something, but it's like sometimes it just helps to know there's some place you could go if you had to.
 Like it just...(33:30)
 Is that need and the burden on him different from his feelings about that whole complex of feelings about him being scared to hear what's bothering you because it makes him feel responsible because you might go hurt yourself or something? Is it, well let's say maybe connected a little bit?
 It sounds like that's not, at least from how you said it that it surely wasn't how you sense that that happened. (37:53)
 And like you can't ask for a damn thing. 
 I mean, what's striking me and this, is, like, something out of my own experience that I've just, like, thought about and had, I don't know, had the work on from time to time is, like, what happens in these situations, at least to me, is that I get, I began to interpret and still do in some ways any feelings of being wanting to be dependent on my part as having that effect. It's like if I wanted to be dependent at all the other person had no experience at. It's like terrible clutching or fencing in or something and then that, I mean, that just I don't want to do that and then I sort of lean over backwards not to do it at all, which then doesn't have good results either, but it's like it's very hard to start making that distinction again particularly if it sounds like in a case like this where it sounds like you get messages all the time that you're too much, you're too much you're asking too much, you're clutching at me, I feel like you're putting me in a corral. (40:38)
 It's like being half offered something or offered something that you don't want. I mean, I'm not saying it right, but it sounds, see the way I hear, the way you describe these things, pardon me for making such a judgment, but like it doesn't sound like what your feeling enough to be asking is unreasonable. I've heard you make that judgment on yourself a lot of times and it sounds like what you're saying is look, you know, it helps me to be able to sit in the same apartment with this guy and I don't think I'm asking anything of him in that sense and that's really important to you in a relationship right now and it's important because you have a history with him and he knows you and you two have been through a lot and I'm not sure you can function without that in some way or what sense is there to continuing the relationship if you don't have any. I don't know is that...(44:24)
 But my judgment was that it didn't sound unreasonable to me. However, I can see like why it hurts so much to think of trying to have a relationship without him.
 Oh, sort of like take what comes to you. (46:03)
 Sort of neutral or not quite so extreme. 
 In a sense that would, although not a quote nice or positive, would have a more solid feel maybe to it. 
 It has a foundation type feeling.
 Now has a more positive feel to me than, just at first, I thought you were talking about sort of resignation, which has a gray and saggy feeling to me. But it sounds like it was a little more than that.
 Yeah, this might be a little too harsh a word for it, but the feeling I got was it kind of didn't have that quality of being second class citizen to it. It was okay I've got to accept these hard facts, with some sort of, it felt to me like there was some sort of dignity in just being able to accept that not be sort of lying down while you were not taking it, but like accepting it or sort of playing the part, a part of you being able to say okay, it's pretty rotten, but this, is how it is and I might be able to, I thought you said something like, you could use that as a basically function for him or maintainable for you.
 Can I—sorry, for a second? I just thought of some administrative things. First, your new insurance—did that kick in as of yesterday?
 Do you have a card yet?
 If you want, it's up to you. I can take a minute now and probably look that all up or I can just look it up later.
 Sure.
 This is a Blue Cross plan. It's a PPO?
 That's likely. Honestly, you could probably ignore what they ...
 Yeah. And even what they may tell you on the phone. (both laugh)
 In July or . . ?
 Right. I'll look it up later and send you an e-mail if you want.
 Often the people on the phone don't give the right information. I know it gives a reason in the brochure but the way it actually works is often a bit different. What I've seen with a PPO is that you don't need authorizations.
 That may be but I've not heard that.
 The other thing that crossed my mind is would it help you to add a visit?
 Okay. [00:04:27]
 Of course. You can think about it (inaudible at 0:04:31)
 Yeah.
 No, that's all I had.
 You mean that's what you're freaking about, related to making the mistakes?
 That's the problem with making a mistake.
 I'm not sure if it just because it looks like I'm going to say something, but are you waiting for me to say something?
 I see. So the thing is you worry about disappointing him?
 You're sort of like a preoccupied nanny?
 Yeah.
 (inaudible at 0:15:09) (both laughing)
 Oh—this is a dissertation?
 Yeah. (pause) [00:18:59]
 I find myself wondering whether there are things you are being careful or even vigilant about now as you're talking.
 Sure. I think what you're saying today harkens back for me a little bit to what you were saying yesterday about being really worried about telling me you've had such a rough week. [00:23:44]
 (both laugh) No, no. I believe you. I guess the parallel seems to me to be the way that we're collaborating on this project. You were having to tell me something that felt like telling me that it's not going well or I haven't done something right, kind of like how vigilant you are with yourself with this guy's dissertation. [00:24:49]
 Which also involves being really afraid of taking up emotional space or any other kind of space. In other words, making a mistake in editing his dissertation, although undoubtedly you will because, as you told me, that's just how it works. It feels like such a problem, you know?
 Okay.
 How about taking up emotional space in a way that you feel, not necessarily wrongly, but you feel make demands on somebody else? Like your mistake becomes the mistake in the dissertation. Or like you're having a bad week means that I might feel bad about not having... (inaudible at 0:26:56) enough or something like that.
 I don't think if you're by yourself being upset, it means you can be frustrated you're upset because you want to feel better or you're frustrated about it; but I don't think, in general, just by being upset you feel bad for taking up emotional space. It seems like it's, if I follow what you're saying, when it's stepping on somebody else's toes or causing a problem for somebody else. [00:27:37]
 What do you like about it?
 Are they like fragments?
 ... (inaudible at 0:34:27) Dr. Who.
 I think that was really important.
 They were kind of about your life and not at the same time.
 Yeah. Truly.
 I hear what you're saying, but there's something when you're talking that seems a bit careful or—meditative isn't quite the right word. There's something about the way that you're talking that's striking me like that more so than usual. It's not that what you're saying isn't important or isn't emotional, it really is both of those things.
 When I talked to you and we arranged this appointment I didn't even ask you anything so I don't....
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 But the thing that you are clearest about is that you do want to do something about the problem.
 But as you have tried to think it over you sort of go round and round in circles. And have come to feel that maybe the most important thing for you is to try to figure out what is true right now or what is the situation right now. Is that?? 0:02:07.4
 I see, rather than go back.
 It is what you wouldn't mind having but
 But you doubt if you will find it.
 Do you feel as though in that area too, you have a tendency to think now, there is a key.
 If I find the thing I will be a good musician. But gradually you have learned that...
 Um hmm.
 But you do feel that it is kind of characteristic of you that anything new you are a little fearful.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm, um hmm. It might, I guess what you are saying is that maybe it is supposed to be that you solve the problem or something but the thing you really feel is that you would hope very much that I would. 0:06:28.8
 In other words I guess you are saying there, "I've wrestled and wrestled with this thing and I don't see a bit more about it, don't understand it a bit better than I did at the outset." 0:07:03.2
 So like it is just a mystery to you as to how a person would make a start in changing himself or in understanding himself.
 I guess you are saying that you have tried going through the behaviors of being interested in girls. And there is some reality to deal with. 0:09:01.6
 So for you, one of the big reasons for wanting to change is the social attitude towards homosexuality.
 Um hmm. So you feel it isn't in itself fully satisfying now but even...
 more weighty is the fact that as you look ahead, you don't like that at all.
 Um hmm. Yes. I sort of get the feeling that you are seeing the various cultural and intellectual considerations on this. Several of those are outside the realm of your own experience.
 But you feel that when you are labeled homosexual then it is as though you are no longer a person at all, you are just somebody that...
 That label really destroys you as a person and just puts you in a class. 0:13:02.3
 At least you think other people haven't put you in that category. It is just the realization within you of what that would mean. 0:14:02.1
 That is the feeling though. That if they really knew, then they would put me in this awful disapproved of class.
 That is the kind of thing that you don't understand. All you are quite sure of is that your feelings do change to some degree from time to time as there have been periods when you have felt quite strongly heterosexual in your interest. And other times when, I guess it feels to you a little bit as though it was a going back or something like that.
 Um hmm. What am I going to all this effort for?
 But you feel as is true that this isn't, doesn't have too much to do with what goes on outwardly in my relationships. It is something within me.
 It is hard to keep putting on an act.0:17:36.8
 You feel in a sense that you are always following a fairly involved script.
 Um hmm. Sort of as though you were going in one direction but this act that you can put on is going off in another direction.0:18:28.3
 Um hmm. Is this what you are saying though? When you and this false front get too far apart then it just seems very necessary to you to get some kind of escape entertainment. And that you realize, evidently realize really suddenly, "Yeah, that is what I went through when I came down here to go to school." 0:19:54.3
 "I just cannot keep up this act permanently."
 Is it in these periods you feel almost compelled to waste time. Is that?
 Um hmm. You really scold yourself if you waste too much time.
 Um hmm. It sounds as though in the piano playing you certainly experience this impulse towards time wasting.
 I mean in the practicing. I see. 0:22:48.2
 Um hmm. Whether it is the newness of it or what that brings this out, at least there is a feeling that whatever you do when you are practicing is tied in in some way, with a lot of other things.
 There is a feeling there that changing yourself to play a new piece or getting into this new experience is something for you that is slow and difficult and like changing yourself. 0:24:32.4
 Since you don't feel that you understand them, though maybe it is when you have been going around in circles for a long time. But at least there are times when you just feel terribly down.
 Sort of a feeling that where I used to be pretty clear and sharp, I am now confused and..
 "I just muddle through. I don't really do things clearly or well." 0:26:37.9
 Does some of those things that can seem very distressing at the time and you would just love to have a chance to talk them out.
 It seems that you can hardly remember clearly what all the strain and stress with your family was about.
 Maybe you get into them by choice or something? 0:28:44.6
 So whatever the experience is in these kind of black times at least when you are out it is as though you have no...
 I guess you are saying that perhaps objectively they really may be trivial things.
 But when you are in that mood they are enormous things.
 Um hmm. So you are saying it could be that if I really am in the mood to be depressed then anything would do.
 Feeling maybe I'm roaming around but I am sure it is all tied together. 0:31:13.0
 There is a vague feeling there that somehow the two things are...
 Is this what you are saying? That perhaps you use what you see as your central problem as kind of an excuse for the fact that you are mentally lazy? 0:32:46.1
 You doubt that it is just kind of mechanical difficulty or using the wrong method or something, but more of there is something deficient in you in that respect. 0:33:49.0
 It is that you can make excuses for yourself but still underneath that there is a very strong feeling you are lazy.
 I guess you feel that this ability to sleep or daydream or a combination of the two is just real proof that you are lazy.
 Maybe what?
 I see, I see.
 Maybe I really choose to sleep rather than the other alternatives.
 Um hmm. Sounds as though you are wondering whether isn't there perhaps some one unified problem. And maybe it isn't as much...
 Some problems would have sharper social aspects and some would not. But isn't there really in me one quite unified problem whatever it is.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, that seems...
 Um hmm. And at least there is a kind of vague feeling that all these different things may be tied in together. In that dreading to wake up and face a new day is not as dissimilar from some of these other problems as it might be. 0:38:43.4
 That is sort of, I guess what you are doing is sort of trying to feel out the implications of this and realizing well certainly this doesn't change just by saying, "Ok, now tomorrow I will change." 0:39:43.7
 I seem to want to slide back or something.
 Sort of as though if you have taken one step forward and then you would like to...
 Yeah, you would like to spread all over that.
 Let's not move forward.
 There again that is kind of the same pattern...
 Sort of feel as though it is surprising the extent of which this does seem to be a theme of being afraid of the new day, the new task, the new...
 Um hmm. Sort of realize that even back there the past tended to look better and yet that you might have been really deceiving yourself about that. That when it was the present maybe it wasn't so hot.
 I see our time is about up for today.
 Um hmm. Would you like to come back at 11:30 next Saturday?
 Ok.
 I'll try to be ready on that.
 I think I was rewinding your tape, actually.
 But you have a job, right?
 M-hm, it is hard to get one.
 Should be getting what?
 Are you worried about your bills?
 You see, the way you are saying it, I can't tell if you really want a job or are you just, there is nothing else to do - it is like (inaudible 1:44) ?
 M-hm. So you are not really very enthusiastic about it but it is better than sitting at home doing nothing?
 But it sounds like maybe you feel real stupid for even coming to talk to him?
 And you are really angry at him?
 So you felt that he was out to prove that you didn't know anything?
 And the more you would like just the chance to tell him that, right?
 Yeah, it is just that you are laughing. I don't know. When you are saying: "I am angry" and you are laughing. I don't know if you really ...
 Is it real, like, scarring, or...?
 Forget it. Get up on that!
 So you could really be a better mechanic than most of them?
 (Laughs) So it just seems stupid to you?
 Their stupidity and the way they do things really annoys you - makes you feel: "Well I wouldn't want to work with them"?
 I am going to question what that did to you?
 But you don't want to put up with that - the treatment?
 But you are irritated and the way you are irritated is: "Well, let us just forget that."
 Did you?
 Pleased that you did all that well?
 And that seems a bit ridiculous to you? (11:57)
 There is something wrong with your ability?
 Then you know that that is the reason why you didn't get it.
 Whereas, now, sometimes it seems to you like there is some big failing in you?
 What kind of things would you enjoy doing?
 Like what?
 When you think about it, you really would like to do that. It is just fun to be there working on those engines?
 It is the people you would have to put up with?
 The shabbiness of it? (14:55)
 And you wouldn't like to be that mechanic?
 So you would really like to do that but the conditions you would have to work under just make that impossible?
 Discouraged?
 It is hard work, yeah.
 You would like to really do a good job?
 It sounds like your discouragement is not that you can't do it, or something. In that case, it isn't the conditions but it is that you don't have the tools?
 You don't have a way to do it?
 But something always brings you back to that - the pull back to that?
 You sound like you are really pleased about it and also there is a quality to looking at the whole thing, almost, from the outside?
 Intuition?
 Somehow, because you don't have a ring issue - somehow the whole relationship is different?
 Like you wanted that status?
 You became somebody different?
 It is like being her boyfriend was confining you somehow?
 And now there is a freedom?
 And it meant something to you that she was concerned about that?
 She does something to you that is so unique, so good?
 Crawling into yourself, you mean?
 You shut yourself off from it?
 It is, like, turned off from what is going on around you.
 There is an ease about that - a comfort about that? (27:00)
 Are you not cool about that? It is almost that you like that in many ways but there is something about it that concerns me too in the way you say the "shell" part?
 That you are what?
 Oh yeah. In the sense of what?
 It sounds like so much of your life is really, really bad that it is such a relief to get away from it sometimes?
 To forget it again, is that what you mean?
 It is like it just gets to be too much too cope with all the time?
 Not like that?
 But there is a quality of life where all this pressure is just something you have to take?
 You have to learn to live under that burden.
 A feeling of resignation seems to be a part of that too in the sense that the feeling that you really will never get out from under that stuff. But the best thing to do is to learn to live with it. Is that right?
 M-hm.
 That's like you can't get drunk because she couldn't really understand what you meant by that?
 It sounds like that is something you don't want to feel. You don't want to think you will be really depressed about her leaving?
 I know.
 M-hm.
 You don't want those two things to be connected?
 And that somehow...
 M-hm. And that some...
 M-hm. There is something about that pattern that makes you feel bad about yourself?
 Is it something that makes you feel weak?
 Forget about?
 You can forget about fact of how little, unimportant or worthless you feel? (35:48)
 (Laughs)
 The noise?
 They are invading your territory.
 External stuff, you mean?
 You are very small and insignificant. And haven't much to do with....
 It doesn't matter to them. So part of the pressure is realizing you don't make any difference to any of those people?
 Why are they coming over here?
 What is that about them coming there - just being there? (38:45)
 There is something very pleasant.
 You want some time to yourself - some space to yourself.
 Some peaceful surroundings.
 But there are times when you just don't want to watch out for other people.
 That would really be funny to be selfish and not worry about running into people?
 What is the (inaudible 40:42)?
 I see, it will be too late.
 (laughs) Plenty of parking and get your dog sleigh.
 True, get out your boat.
 That sounds like you have a very closed inner (inaudible 41:28).You are surrounded, pressed upon.
 That it was somehow related to that.
 But that you felt the pressure even then to get out from under things. In a way, get some freedom?
 It could almost boil over but there is nowhere for it to boil?
 It is stuck up inside of you. What is that pressure like in life?
 But it sounds like, you might say, angry things or unkind things?
 Because you really feel that way inside but there is no outlet for that?
 M-hm.
 It almost slips out.
 I guess that makes me wonder. I haven't heard you be sarcastic in here. Does that mean you feel guarded in that same way when you are here?
 To be sarcastic, it doesn't really release any of that pressure?
 It feels like the way to get rid of that pressure is through action, like what? (45:00)
 I guess what I want to say is that if you feel like being sarcastic, well here is one place where you can do that without worrying. It is not going to break up the relationship with your girlfriend.
 But tonight you are really enjoying it?
 (Laughs) You waved to a lot of people!
 So sometimes you really just feel happy?
 Just for the fun of it?
 What.
 Just now?
 Scream what?
 What would you feel like afterwards?
 You feel stupid?
 Embarrassed?
 You feel like doing it anyway - or you felt like it - Then you felt: "What good would that do? What is going on here. What would that prove. How would that help?" Something like that?
 What?
 No (laughs). You afraid one of them might get you if you scream?
 Like you are almost afraid to be?
 Here, nothing is going to happen if you scream.
 H-hm?
 You just wanted to consider it?
 So you had to be very restrained in what you did?
 Scares you how?
 That is what I wondered about when you said that.
 Does it scare you that maybe your (inaudible 50:31) has to put up with anything and it wouldn't matter to you?
 Maybe you really do feel that way. Is that how you feel right now?
 Right now you do care?
 Slightly! That is a fear in the back of your mind. "Am I going in the right direction?"
 It is what? And that would be okay with you?
 More like you are wondering if it is that?
 But something has happened to you in the last four months that has made you feel your beaten down?
 Like pushed to the ground and kind of like (inaudible 52:36)?
 I am not really sure what you are telling me. That you really felt that you were discouraged?
 Almost, every time you try, it is like you can't win - really discouraging?
 That you never seem to be able to hit the right answer?
 So it is very discouraging to always be trying and never getting out of it?
 Even trying makes it worse?
 What you do, it gets you in deeper?
 That must be really depressing?
 Did you decide?
 They couldn't really understand.
 Trying seems so hopeless?
 Because everything else seems really hopeless - a dead end?
 To realize all the unhappiness and suffering that it is causing?
 And they didn't think of it when they arrested you?
 It seems like somehow once you have that mark against you, there is no way to work your way out of that. And the bitterness towards those people who do that to you.
 What do you mean?
 If you could cry what?
 You mean you stop yourself from crying?
 And there is no way to get rid of it - crying doesn't help? There is really no way to get it out of your system and that is part of the whole process? (66:06)
 At least there is only, like, so much of it, you know. Like it just overflows. And in running a little bit off, there is still so much left.
 This sounds like a really frightening thing - to feel that. Even getting rid of it, there is always more and it always comes back.
 Good morning.
 Wow, I'm sorry to hear that.
 I see.
 Right, that's a lot of money.
 I bet.
 That doesn't sound good.
 Yeah.
 Isn't the twenty one thousand essentially, like, aren't you ponying that up for Jess essentially if you're filing jointly.
 I'm sorry whatever the...
 How bad is it?
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Wow.
(pause)
 Yeah.
pause at [00:12:13] to [00:12:37]
 I see.
 Yeah what happened?
 I see.
 You mean you're just cooked.
 Yeah, I've seen like bits and pieces of it.
 I see, yeah.
 If you can't do it, you can't do it. How is it when you're up together?
 Mmhm.
 I guess in terms of Ian asking you to come over and wanting to spend time at your place, uh, maybe he's coming around.
 Oh I understand.
 Yeah.
Pause at [00:25:25] to [00:25:57]
 That modification thing is unbelievable. I mean they've been asking for stuff for about five months at this point?
 Right.
Pause at [00:28:23] to [00:29:16]
 Yeah you sound pretty wrecked.
Pause at [00:29:21] to [00:29:50]
 You said the only thing really keeping you around was the kids. (pause) Is that right? Without them you'd be dead?
 You know, it reminds me you go for the kids and hoping that you know, at some time down the road things will be better and more manageable although you're not at all clear how you're gonna get from here to there.
Pause at [00:35:37] to [00:37:55]
 You know, [inaudible at 00:40:33]
Pause at [00:40:36] to [00:41:02]
 Mmhm.
Pause at [00:42:02] to [00:42:36]
 Let me make sure I've got something. Are you saying that when you go through these days and you've really been concentrating and you've really been functioning, that it's sort of at that point that you begin to question - question...
 After those things?
 After you've - okay.
 Well, the one thing about these things that you were all doing together sounds to me like they're - they're sort of natural. And it's what, I guess, they call as functional progress, just something to do with them, to do something, to do them with people. They didn't have any great (keliological) meaning or anything like that. It was just fun to do things. And you don't - you just don't have those opportunities for some - I'm not sure, like, why you can't do those things with your boyfriend or what - I don't think it's a specific reason. There's something else that I - I'm not getting it.
 It's like you just don't have the right kinds of relationships or something.
 I guess one thing that strikes me right this minute is I'm wondering that part of is that you don't have to worry constantly with these people about how you're hitting them and how they're hitting you. And at least, just the quality of how you're talking it, it's kind of you - even though you didn't see them for a long time, you sort of knew where you were with them and they knew where they were with you, and you could all do things together without worrying about how some folks can see you. 0:11:46.2
 It seems like you are talking in someway about a particular kind of contact. Because, you know, I was wondering before when you said, "Well, these people at work are nice." Yes, but they're not in your world. And what - what is it about people that - that helps them get in your world, so about how you feel about them. I don't present that as a question for you to answer this minute. But, like, that was kind of a thing that was raised for me. And what is it that set a tone. Like, one way of looking at not being able to get your half hour that was very important to you yesterday was that it - there's was a certain kind of contact missing. Like, it wasn't - I mean, he was there and you were there, but the contact - the type of contact wasn't there. And I'm wondering what - do you have any idea what that is? Or what would make one of these people at work come into your world - come into your world or be friends? 0:17:26.2
 I have, but you must refresh my memory.
 It's been a long time since.
 Lie down.
 Now, in a way, it's a change that takes - is starting a chain of psychological terms. It sounds like one - one piece of it is that you really - I mean, you - it's sort of like mattering to another person or having a particular meaning to the other person. And another part I was hearing is that they - they sort of - well, they take you as you are.
 That - that's some kind of that acceptance. But it's like they're glad to know you and glad to know you as you, not how they would like to change you into it. 0:21:09.1
 Okay, so, like, let's say, I don't know, somebody came into HD or something and you really like them and it felt compatible and all that. One of the things that would make it - maybe it's the main thing right now that would keep this from happening is you're feeling like you have been - almost didn't qualify to form a friendship with them. Is that - is that what you're saying?
 Is there something like - is it - is it as simple - or this probably oversimplifies. But even if you like them, they - they have no reason to like you or to want to get to know you, do you feel?
 You mean whether or not it's really true, most of it is you thinking that about yourself?
 Or acting as if.
 Do you feel, at other times, when, like, - such as, in college, that you betrayed yourself in a - in a way like that? Like, how come you knew these people in college that - and that was done?
 Well, it sounds like one element - and whether it's there all the time or whether it happened to be there for this group of people that you knew was - it sounds like an atmosphere to, you know, being able to present yourself in a way that you got to knew people - got to know people.
 I don't know if that's true in life in general.
 I'd be interested to know how you think you present yourself here. I don't know whether you have any - you know, whether that's ever crossed your mind or whether you care or worry about it all, but do you see yourself here in the same way?
 No, I mean here, between you and me.
 And how do you present yourself to me, do you think?
 I'm kind of sensing some - either annoyance with that question or annoyance about what you just said. Like, it annoys you that there's just - that it's superficial here and that there's just pieces in a hunk and stuff like that. Is that - is that right?
 You sound very discouraged. You're saying that or as if you're feeling something very deeply about what you're saying. 0:36:12.9
 Yes, I was going to say, it's like, you know, you've come full circle and you're right - you're past - you're kind of now where you were telling me you were in the beginning of the day.
 Hmm?
 Generally? Are you more affected when it gets to be night? (Inaudible 0:38:38.2)?
 Yes, I was going to say, I'm - I'm wondering if it's most of the time when you're off in some room by yourself that that's when it happens?
I'm not sure that would be an important observation. It's like an image I got more than anything else.
 What - what - what's a need that's beyond those normally expressed?
 We're going to have to stop.
 So... I'm not going to be in Monday because of the holiday. I don't know if I had
mentioned that this past Monday.
 So we should talk about sometime next week. Do you want me to just send you a text about it so we don't have to take the time now?
 Okay, I'll do that.
 The Vow?
 It's a movie.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Sort of those Greek stories where they're like this is your fate, and they're (ph) like I'm going to do (ph) those other things so I don't remember that fate, and then like, yeah.
 Right.
 (Chuckling).
 Right.
 Really?
 Right.
 I'm confused.
 Right.
 Right.
 Uh-huh, okay.
 And Shauna was not there, right.
 Like I get that it did; I'm wondering how so. Like you're just - did it upset you because it reminded you of Shauna, or were you upset for Jen because - for Clara, because you were worried it was going to upset her to think about it? Like you know what I mean?
 Yeah, sure.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right.
 Sure, sure.
 Hmm. You haven't like hardly mentioned her since you came back from the surgery.
 Well, yeah.
 Uh-huh, yeah.
 Right. But not really.
 Sure.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Wait. You don't want to break up with her because she wants to marry you?
 I mean I get that she's very serious about you.
 Right, but -
 Right.
 It feels like I'm stringing her along. And I get mixed emotions though, because on the one hand, you know, I don't want to string her along because that's going to suck, but on the other hand I don't want to lose her. [00:08:09]
So it's like maybe I'm just happy in my comfort zone in that room in her apartment; like the fact that it's like a block from my house, from my apartment. But I don't cheat on her, which is different from, you know, Shauna and -
 Right.
 (Chuckling)
 Um-hmm.
 Right.
 I see.
 Are there different ways that you're concerned she's getting in the way of your - like, being more how you want to be?
 Yeah, right.
 Right.
(Pause [00:12:16] to 00:12:24).
 One thing that crossed my mind about it was like - I wonder if there's a way in which you have this kind of like a bit of a stoic vision right now for how you want to be, you know, like a little apathetic (ph), like very clean, sort of sober, on the right track, very disappointed about it, focused.
And having a girlfriend, period, and having her as your girlfriend in particular, just don't fit too well with that. I mean like "Let's go out, you know, or like bring (ph) together new friends" or whatever, which are things you also like to do, in a way. But are - and are very comfortable inside but conflict with this other thing. [00:13:50].
 Hmm.
 I see, right.
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right, right, but you're not really sure where you were on the way.
 Huh.
 Oh, yeah?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh, yeah. They're not colored a little bit.
 Yup.
 Right.
 So where are they at, then, if they're - I mean if you're not hearing angels sing?
 Yeah. What's shitty? Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 Oh.
 I see.
 (Chuckling)
 Um-hmm.
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. Yeah.
 I see.
 Or [sort of makes this more an uphill] (ph) battle and that could suck more. That makes it feel more frustrating, even embarrassing, puts you in a horrible position.
(Pause [00:25:05] to 00:25:14)
 Uh-huh.
 Right. [00:26:12]
 Yeah.
 Sure.
 Um-hmm.
(Pause [00:26:39] to 00:26:56.)
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. You never heard that - you really don't say "So fuck it all anyway, I'm just going to do whatever I want to do" in a way that -
 Yeah. You used to do a lot. [00:28:11]
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Do you know what you're going to do as far as the school stuff goes?
 Um-hmm. If you like register at another college and do you - get some better grades, can you then transfer back, or is that not how it works?
 So you have three - oh, I see. The probably F, that actually counted as a semester and you probably don't get credit.
 Yeah. I got it in terms of the GPA and not going back to school, man, but I didn't get it in terms of not getting the credits that you'll need to graduate.
 Um-hmm.
 Um, I mean this is just a random practical idea and, like, I'll throw it out there. I wonder if there are ways you could get those credits more cheaply. Like can you do some classes at a community college, just to get credits that you can then transfer? And if that's true, are there ways you can start doing those sooner than this summer? Do you know what I mean? My impression is that, like, if you could do something productive like that, starting the next couple of three weeks, like, do you think you're pretty psyched to do that? [00:31:36].
 And I was just wondering if there's like a kind of less traditional environment like that, like a community college or something, where, you know, maybe they have like some half semester courses that you can transfer credits from and that are going to be a lot cheaper than getting the extra credits you need at a place like Brandeis?
 Right.
 Right, right.
 Yeah. I'd just imagine a cheaper place to do them if you could transfer the - transfer the credits or something, that's all.
 Uh-huh, yeah, right.
 (Chuckling), right.
 (Chuckling). I've got to wake up, right. [00:33:12]
 Right.
 Right. Right.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Right. We can stop for now, but I'll text you by next week.
 Let's see. Yeah, I'm going to see if I can find something earlier in the week as well.
 All right. Take it easy. Sure. [00:34:48]
   And what?  What, what would you like to do then?
   And what do you want to do here when you feel here as though you want to withdraw?
   Yeah.
   You haven't yet?
   I don't have an entirely clear picture about the piles and the stacks.  What are they?  Magazines?
   What do you mean?  Notebooks?
   And you dated less?
   When was that?
   What you call compatibility, does that sort of describe the other fellows too?  I mean the CHN fellow and the BRD fellow and the fellows in high school?
   And that feeling again is what?
   Can you give me some hint?
   Well, our time is up.
 Okay, you look a little down, what's up?
 Really
 What happened?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.
 Was she in agreement with stopping, did she think -
 She also found [INAUDIBLE].
 Well, maybe we should find you someone different though.
 I mean did you value psychotherapy?  Was it something that captured your imagination?
 It's called a goo log?
 Right, [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.  One of the reasons I like the idea of a social worker specifically.
 Was because services might be an issue with your mom.
 And her, you know, and even you and social workers kind of know the ins and outs of getting home health aides and getting hooked up with the system so it's very practical.
 I hope you've left the door open for it.
 You know, you can do an appointment or two and she can give you the specifics of I called this agency, go to this appointment.
 Your mom's not there yet, your mom's not there yet but I think at some point, you'll need home health aides.
 Do you have anyone coming in to help?
 It takes a while to set those things up.
 It might not be a bad idea for you to at least start it.
 Open a case.
 For her just, you know.
 Because I see this as one of the things that potentially destabilizes you, the massive, you know.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it's in addition to the psychological part of watching your mother, watching this happen to your mother.
 You know, there's the day to day of having to be responsible and take care of her.  All right, I saw you [DATE], you were on the Zyprexa 5 mg for ten days, it gave you constipation and eczema.
 Your mood lifted so you stopped it.  The Wellbutrin you pushed that, at that point, to 450 for a week, then you pulled back to 175.  Your mood was good, you weren't sad, anxious, or irritable.  You had some of these ideas of reference regarding strangers.
 A bit of grandiosity, you were getting pleasure; your mother was pretty stable.  Sleep and appetite were fine.  Energy is good, exercising, so we thought in the setting of your kind of chronic psychiatric difficulties
 You were in a decent place, your head was above water.
 Okay, now a month later, how have you been?
 Why would you do that without calling?
 Also, I see no one as frequently as I see you.  Really, you would -
 The average is once every three months.  I see you every month -
 So you can wait until you see me.
 For us to make changes or just call me.
 Now what was your reasoning behind backing off on the Wellbutrin?
 You stopped it about a week ago?
 What was your mood like before that?
 You were doing nice?
 On the Seroquel, Wellbutrin combination, things were going well.
 You stopped it and how many days did it take for you to -
 Crash.
 And what does crash mean?
 So you were sad all the time?
 And you had no energy?
 You were over sleeping?
 Were you overeating?
 So your appetite was normal?
 Any suicidal thinking?
 Any voices?
 Any paranoid thinking?
 Chronic, yeah.
 But did it get worse, were you getting more referential, more -
 You know what I mean, referential?
 That's a given.
 That's the hardwire.
 That's the trait, not the state, that's like eye color; I mean it's just -
 Part of the wiring.
 Okay, whereas the state is depression, not depressed, you know.
 Oh yeah.  Okay, so you fell into that state
 You scratched your head and said maybe this is related to stopping the Wellbutrin.
 Did you restart it?
 What dose did you go to?
 Eczema, really, on the Wellbutrin. The Zyprexa gave you eczema.
 Constipation and eczema, you can't blame them both, you've got to pick one.  We agreed that was Zyprexa.
 So there's no real barrier to raising the Wellbutrin
 You're just reluctant to push
 Wow.
 How did you lose 45 pounds?
 Really?
 Wow.
 45 pounds.
 It ain't 5-10 pounds, 45 pounds
 That's massive.
 That's like thirty percent of your body weight.
 That's massive.
 Are you going to keep going?
 Are you still losing?
 Wow.
 And your heart must be happier also.
 You know, and your energy level.
 Terrific.
 You're not seeing your psychotherapist.
 Well but that's not fair, that's apples and oranges.
 That's not fair.
 Well, but I'm your psychopharmacologist, I'm not your therapist.
 When did you make the decision to stop with her?
 So it was before you stopped the Wellbutrin?
 It wasn't in a depressed state.
 It was more clear eyed but you were jettisoning things.
 Jettisoning things at that time.
 She was one of them.
 And what kind of things were you working on then?
 Right.
 But if you value psychotherapy, we could just find you someone else.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Like mommy daddy stuff?
 She stays on the surface?
 Her experience is more with depressives I think.  I thinks she's not worked with the chronic populations that you've been part of.
 Although you've been a, from where you came from, that population, you're almost the best it gets, you know, there are too many barriers to you working [INAUDIBLE].
 Really.
 Why?
 As a mathematician?
 And he [INAUDIBLE].
 And why is he finished?
 You're mind is not [INAUDIBLE].
 That's why it's very humbling.
 Really.
 They restrict it to below [AGE]?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Einstein was creative into his later years.
 Really.
 So he just rode it out.
 Rode out his earlier insights.
 Really.
 Is that when he finished?
 Wow.
 Freud was pretty productive until -
 But he got into psycho, he got weirder, he did his best work also in his early years.
 In later years.
 Do you feel like you're burnt out now?
 But you always seem to get so much pleasure from it.
 He understands what you've done and -
 And he said it will really help him, your work will help him.
 Hopefully, he'll acknowledge you.
 Is he a mathematician, is this what he does?
 Is he going to pursue it?
 So you got him laid.
 Oh wow.
 So is it his girlfriend now?
 Wow.
 All from your books.
 She must be maybe a bit odd herself.
 Odd is the wrong word.
 Someone told me there's a new TV show about these two really nerdy
 Yeah, I haven't seen it yet, I've seen the commercial for it.
 Is that what it is?
 Oh yeah.
 Well, okay, so but we're on to the two subjects that -
 Which is, you know, listen, we could shape you up a little bit but you're in the, you know, you're close to the zone.  A relationship, besides your mom -
 And a job.
 Would seem to be the next step and if therapy will help you there then we've got to push therapy but, you know, I would suggest that that's the next place for you to advance.  I mean, we may agree at some point that you just can't make it, you can't get over that barrier for whatever reason and I'm -
 [INAUDIBLE] it's not [INAUDIBLE] your relationship.
 Well, it can't be too complicated.
 Tell me in one or two sentences.
 That, what's hard wired?
 You need to meditate?
 Right, right.
 And how does that interfere with getting a job?
 Yeah.
 Ashram advisor.
 You know.
 Yeah, so it's not necessarily a contradiction.
 But it's no, you know, it doesn't seem to be -
 And how about a relationship, how does it interfere with a relationship?
 Oh yeah, who lives in your building?
 So is she age appropriate?
 No.
 It's in the range.
 And is she good  looking?
 And is she nice to you?
 So do you have chats or, you know?
 How did you get her number?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Right.
 And she's single?
 And so you got to chat with her then, you were at the meeting?
 What do you mean, on all what?
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah.
 Well you can find a non threatening way to engage her.
 So you don't face the possibility of rejection full force.
 Well, you see how receptive she is on the phone.
 Then follow those cues.
 But for you that's a little, disarming because it takes the pressure off.
 But you have a bit a social awkwardness too.
 Sometimes you get a little tongue tied.
 Phobias.
 And so if she's filling up void -
 I'll be looking forward to hearing.
 You haven't talked to anyone about it?
 Does she have email?  You don't have email do you?
 Because that would be one way.
 Okay, so you restarted the Wellbutrin yesterday.
 Pushed it to 150 and you're feeling a little better today.
 All right, so your mood is lifting but, to be honest, it might not lift; I mean it would be nice to see you in a week to make sure that you're better.  If things don't go the right way, give me a call.
 Well we'll, is she getting any worse?
 Oh yeah.
 Well, it's hard to gauge now because you're just coming out of this few day depression from being off the meds but before all that.
 Were you very down about -
 You weren't?
 So it's especially when you're depressed?
 That gets you more depressed?
 Well -
 I don't want to push you too hard.
 You know, without even, I mean, you have challenges beyond what would seem obvious.
 We both know that.
 You have real challenges.
 And the fact that you're managing them without much help.
 Is very impressive.
 You know and so I wouldn't want you to feel bad that you're not, you don't have like a normal life.
 Like you know, you really, for what you, for the deck you got dealt.
 You're doing well.
 You know, you're functioning near the top of your range, near the top of your range.
 Right, but my job is to push you, you know, a little more.
 You know, push you further.
 If you make it, you will, if not, you'll settle back at this level.
 I just see you in the situation with your mom as potentially very challenging psychiatrically.
 And increasing
 You know, the challenge will be increasing.
 And you want to go like upstate New York.
 And do -
 Well, maybe it is time to start setting up those systems.
 That safety net or whatever, I think it.
 Social workers would know.
 You know, I think they have people who would come for, you know, whenever, I mean society does not expect you to stay home all day with your mom.
 Society has systems to -
 Right.
 You've got time on your hands, you're not doing math all day long.
 So now you could start following up with that.
 All right, if there's any change, any problem, please give me a call, all right.
 All right, take care.  
 I'll see you in a few weeks.
 Side 1, Track 1; side 1, track 1; client 0724-027; client 0724-027. Interview number one. Interview number one. Robinson, counselor.
 Maximum of 20 and really they're, they're yours... they're your hours to use as you wish to talk about what you really wish.
 It would probably be very helpful to me if you do tell me what brings you here, though.
 You mean their... you can sense that they're there and you know what they are, but not - 
  - what to do with them?
 Can you t... can you say more about the self-confidence? I mean I, I kind of sense like when you look at yourself, like you can really sense you don't have the confidence in yourself, that you'd really just like to have.
 Do you feel like kind of like you kind of copped out from kind of trying to make a try at going into drama?
 Prevented yourself from ever finding that out. [0:02:59.1]
 You mean it's kind of like from some kind of objective standpoint you are good, but that doesn't mean that much to you.
 (Crosstalk) you feel?
 What do you feel? [0:03:57.3]
 Do you feel like you're constantly watching yourself and measuring yourself? Because I kind of sense that might be in there.
 Uh-huh. Kind of like always... thing some kind of internal yardstick.
 On what you do - 
 You mean like, it's like you keep them inside and so you never act on them and you never kind of prove kind of or really know yourself that you can follow through on what's inside yourself.
 Yes.
 Is that kind of part of like kind of being scared and lacking self-confidence beforehand so you don't, you don't a - 
 But is there something in there you got into it, for what health (ph) you get into is not knowing inside yourself if you could do it, but kind of other people.
 Yeah, well I, I mean I'm just trying to, I'm just starting to get a sense of what you're saying, I mean, I'd like if you can try to... see the type of... I mean like I don't really need information but the facts, I mean, I'm, I just really -  [0:07:15.1]
  - want to try to understand how you do feel about what's bothering you, I'm just going to get a much... a fuller, a full picture. Let me ask you this, the... but maybe it might help if you could give me some examples, do you understand what I mean? Like of how you feel when you don't act, like you're scared to act and you depend on other people.
 You know, that kind of my - 
  - to get... I want to try to get a flavor of what it is that you - 
 Okay.
 Where are you?
 No, I don't mean physically, where are you (crosstalk)  - 
 Is it that you're bored or is it because - 
 Do you feel like that's kind of like a lack on yourself if you can't really, like you're not being, there's nothing about you that's pre... you know, you f-you feel bad that you're not being responsive to people? [0:08:59.1]
 Do you feel that there's something wrong or bad about that?
 No, being concerned about yourself.
 Do you find that that happens with your boyfriend? You know, that - 
 So it kind of, I still sense that there... it's like you're just not totally satisfied with the how - 
  - how responsive you are to people.
 And as soon as like you start to feel like you can give, it's like what do I also get.
 Yeah, it feels good to give.
 And how does that you make feel about yourself?
 And you, when you see yourself - 
 Yeah, like when you see yourself doing that, you kind of I guess see yourself as a selfish person, don't like the person you see.
 Mm-hmm. You see kind of things that worry you and trouble you and make you feel bad about yourself.
 What other kinds (ph) besides selfishness?
 As you talk and fantasize you feel a little hesitant about saying these things about yourself, does it make you feel bad or.... [0:12:04.6]
 Like, what - 
 Yeah, I really sense it's like when you try to... in talking about yourself and you kind of try to say what you are, like there's, you're not quite sure and you know that there are a lot of things you don't like and you feel really kind of not sure about who you are that you do like, you know?
 In kind of real positive senses.
 Giving something.
 And you really look to people for the kind of support you don't feel that you get just from inside yourself and - 
  - (crosstalk) about yourself.
 Yeah, but I sense what you're saying is that it's always like you have to look outside.
 Outside for (inaudible at 0:14:49.0) people because you don't feel that inside yourself.
 Yeah, it's kind of, isn't that... is there something in there kind of like momentarily that praise can feel good, but you know, in a way you know it's kind of like you're too sophisticated for that or know that it may be... that's kind of an artificial. I mean that's from outside where it's inside, it really shouldn't be that way. [0:16:02.7]
 But you don't.
 How do you go about working them out, you know, when you say you make attempts to work it out?
 When you say negative subjective, you don't understand - 
  - in yourself.
 Kind of browbeating yourself. [0:16:54.2]
 Kind of because that's the overriding sense (ph).
 And that's kind of hard for you to try to force the positive side because it's like the negative just feels so much more there (ph) - 
  - and real.
 Are your good feelings kind of transitory like it doesn't take much to turn the tide the other way? [0:17:52.5]
 Yeah, making mistakes are really, they take on very big significance for you.
 Why, why are you so hard on yourself?
 I mean because it's very much striking me that you're very - 
  - hard on yourself.
 Well one of the - 
 Not much - 
  - of anything.
 Not a terrible person, but just nothing - 
  - solid to kind of make you feel resonate inside.
 (Background noise) emotional kinds of things to be, because about a minute or two ago you said like you have a hard time expressing emotions to people. I somehow think that might be the... kind of... can you say more about it? [0:19:56.4]
 Do you feel it though? See because like with the love thing you were kind of saying like it's hard for you to feel it, and that if you do feel it it's also hard for me to show it. It's kind of like with emotions, there's a dual problem, it's that you kind of sense that you feel like you may not be feeling it like you should be - 
  - and expressing it, too.
 So it kind of sounds like, in some way, you kind of like, you feel like you're not really kind of open to emotional experience the way you, you think you should be.
 Fear of being rejected.
 That's like... I mean I kind of sense is you were saying that that kind of disturbs that you are... like you may be that fearful.
 (Crosstalk)
 What you do mean justifiable (ph)?
 Sure. I thought what you meant by justifiable, you meant that the fear of being rejected is justifiable. [0:22:54.8]
 Yeah, that's kind of what I sensed, I mean there's, there's kind of commonality there, that take a risk... it's like taking risks and feeling my emotions, taking risks and trying to do things and kind of, I'll find out I can't do them, you know what you said about apathy and, it's kind of like you're kind of afraid of these things to kind of go and act or go and feel, express it for fear that you'll get, get hurt in the end and that it's kind of like in the end you'll be put down and you'll be and (ph) less worthy.
 Yeah, and that's because it's hard for you to risk making the first move.
 That's kind of like you had many friends, but not many meaningful relationships.
 And now you kind of sense the difference, but still sense the difficulty for you and meaningfully related to someone.
 Yeah, it's kind of like in a way you feel like that wasn't a good way of being with people, but it's like you don't have the way you want yet.
 And that's kind of like, I guess that's kind of involved with being able to feel loving towards someone that you said feel that, when your... when you're loved meaningfully with someone, you're, you're vulnerable.
 Is that kind of ass... I'm kind of not sure if you knew, like you don't know what love means kind of intellectually or you don't know if you can feel it. [0:27:03.0]
 It's like if you're capable of that.
 It's kind of scary to you, isn't it?
 Yeah. It's like you really kind of feel like emotionally you may... you're deadened inside or keep yourself guarded.
 It sounds like you're not open to what could be the most enriching source of experience for yourself.
 It kind of really upsets you. [0:28:02.6]
 (Silence) Kind of what I sense when I said it really upset you, you kind of maybe it was a silly statement on my part, that that kind of bothered you.
 (Crosstalk) I wh - 
 You s - 
 Yeah, well see I guess what brought... yeah, it's like it's not... like in living you may not be living.
 The most, but what I was, what I was thinking like when I said that it upsets you I kind of... you see you're saying... you're saying with some, you know what sound to me kind of like they're heavy things about yourself. But I guess it's kind of like I'm seeing what you're talking about in a way like that you're talking about them, but it's like, and you know, yes, you say you're upset but it's kind of hard for me to really sense that emotion really being alive in you. Do you understand what I'm talking about? As, even as you talked about it.
 Does that, how does that hit you when, when you said...?
 Kind of like going through them.
 Yeah, do you really kind of feel like you have hardened yourself?
 Yeah, but let me a... is being str - 
 Oh sure. Let me ask you, is being strong the same thing as being hard?
 You said, because you're saying - 
  - you're saying that you, you're strong, but then you're saying you've also hardened yourself.
 You're hard.
 What do you think about that? [0:30:58.4]
 What makes them come out?
 He's not a hard person, I take it.
 Is he strong? [0:31:59.3]
 Oh, okay, interesting.
 Okay, (inaudible at 0:32:11.8).
 It [effuses tedium] (ph). 
 It's like they're kind of... when emotions do hit you, they're either... it's kind of like because their intensity is strong, like depression, or else kind of if they're good, it's kind of like, you depend on other people's kind of having, you're not despairing way. [0:32:57.5]
 Right, it's kind of like they open the door and you, you can't open it yourself.
 But you can't be like them and open that for someone else, it just isn't that way.
 (Silence) It kind of is, you know when you looked at yourself and what you do with the feelings or how you don't have them, it's kind of like, you feel like you're kind of living kind of in a closed, like your closing also off something of yourself.
 Yeah, but I, but I sense from what you're saying you really kind of want to be able to be that way (crosstalk) - 
 And have them.
 Yeah, because I kind of sense that like when you say this may not mean that much to you because it's kind of a theoretical statement, but like when you do have feelings, you feel a lot more alive and you do have much more sense of yourself because they a part of the kind of experience.
 And like - 
 You mean like having expressed being, feeling down with someone or - 
  - (inaudible at 0:35:58.1).
 It makes you feel (inaudible)
 (Crosstalk) Alive.
 Like a sense of you are someone.
 Right, it's kind of like you have to have it all spaced, paced out and structured, but to kind of go and risk doing that with someone, you really shy away from that.
 That's kind of like now you can see what you were doing and then you couldn't even see it, that was like a way of life almost (ph).
 Kind of like now you can see that you are meaningfully related to people (inaudible at 0:37:34.2) 
 and I guess that's part of what you mean, having a super-having superficial relationships.
 You mean like you want to kind of a task in a program or something like that or...
 You're kind of (crosstalk), yeah, you're kind of task oriented.
 Well, I think you got... this kind of, I don't know if you... this kind of therapy done here isn't the kind of a place where we give you programs.
 But do you... let me, let me say this to you, I mean you haven't told me that much, but I just hope that I would really have a hunch that, what's kind of basic towards bothering you. I mean it has to do with like, what you say is bothering you and we haven't talked about sex yet, but I'm sure it... which affects that too, but by your lack of self-confidence and not feeling good about yourself is very much part of this kind of thing of, like that you're not living richly; like you're not living kind of openly to what you can feel inside because like as you, yourself said, when you do feel like you can feel things, it makes you feel more like a person. And kind of like that almost the crux of what's important to you and kind of like how... why the way you're living your life isn't meaningful and you're not happy with yourself. And I'm sure it also has to do with whatever, although you haven't said it, about what the sexual things might be. But what do you do about that? Well, there isn't a program for that. But this kind of therapy... this place is kind of a place where you learn that you can... that feelings aren't such bad and hard things to experience. That you can have them and they're not hard to have, I mean - well they may be hard to have, but that you can learn the secret or, I... that's probably sounds (crosstalk) - [0:40:30.1]
 Yeah, you're real... and you're real impatient to get through that.
 Yeah, well you see, when I said that this was really your hour, I mean the thing that I would like you to try to focus on and talk about here are the things that really feel like they're most the feeling tones (inaudible at 0:41:30.9). Do you unders... I mean I - 
 Well, it's kind of like, the things that feel kind of most experientially loaded, like that they feel like they could either be, certainly the most, the things that kind of upset you and disturb you the most will be, can be (inaudible at 0:41:50.1) things that, for example, could be you feel best, too. But they're the things that kind of feel most relevant or meaningful to you because those are the things that the feelings are tied up with or the lack of feelings are tied up with. You know, and when I said before - and maybe you'll more how this kind of relates - when I said before, like you were saying heavy things about yourself and you th... like and I said well, it must upset and you kind of went, sure. It's kind of like, that... I don't know what you're supposed to be, if you're supposed to (inaudible at 0:42:26.6) that's, there's not expectancy, but like there are more feelings about all the things you're talking about. And, of course, like the first time you don't get into - 
 That, that's why I say, I sense you're impatient, but you have to feel, you come to feel more comfortable in getting into those feelings, too. Do you see what I mean, really?
 Right. It's the same lines. [0:43:03.7]
 Okay. Well one thing, you see what I really try to do and I really try to, as you talk... I mean I, what I try to do is really try to understand what you're saying as you understand it, not in a necessarily from a theory because I don't... we don't do that here, but you know the idea that like what I say to you can help you focus more on what your feeling is about that, to make the experience a more, let's say less intellectual. You understand what I mean?
 Kind of more what's really there, what do you really feel there. Now it's like (inaudible) takes listening to me, to what I say to you.
 Something is disturbing you and - 
 Kind of like you want to know that (crosstalk) - 
 It was very pressured - 
  - that you really had a lot of feelings and were strong ones.
 Yeah, it's kind of like you don't even know what to do or how to do it.
 Right. Because you don't understand those expectancies.
 Like what are the rules in a way, I mean I'm using rules metaphorically. Or what's expected of you, maybe that's better.
 You les-well it's like you don't have expectancies about what to do, you have expectancies of what you'd like to happen.
 You know what I mean? Like the things that you want to feel good about (inaudible).
 Okay. Let me...let me try this again maybe I can say it better. Like what do you do, what do I do, and what I do or what I want you to do, what's the most... the most important stuff is to try to really talk about the things that do most concern you. And when I said kind of... you have the most feelings about. And what I'll try to do is really try to understand what your feelings are, try to focus on and evoke (ph) more on you because I mean I, basically I mean I do think that probably your problem and I guess the whole viewpoint in this kind of place, theoretically is that people's problems are really often that they're not feeling as fully what they can, but if you can f-you feel... if you can learn how to have your feelings more, that's what I kind of (inaudible) kind of show that like, I mean you do feel differently about yourself. You live a very different life and you know what that means in terms of what to do, okay, you... well you're not actively suffering, you're not in a crisis opening (ph) you're not coming in here laden with feelings, but that there are things that really upset you about yourself and we try to get into those feelings, your upsetness about yourself.
 Does that, does that help you at all? I mean I know it doesn't, I can't give you a map, do you understand what I mean?
 It's a very general thing I...
 Getting somewhere.
 Now what, I'm trying to see the connection - 
 Sure.
 No, no, no, no, no. But I'm trying to see the connection between that and you in here, somehow that worries you and I'm trying to - 
  - (crosstalk) worries - 
 And like - 
 Are you worried about me being an adult? Is that your - 
 Will that happen here, too?
 Oh.
 Oh, oh.
 Oh, okay.
 I see, I see, because I had sensed there was an implicit connection between what you were talking about here.
 Oh, I didn't realize that there was a period. Know what I mean?
 Yeah, you mean like that's just kind of... and that's really another place where you see yourself, "I'm not getting somewhere."
 Mm-hmm. Being effective.
 Yeah, is it kind of like a when you look to see what you have to do and look inside yourself and sense like your own... what you sense to be your own lack and feelings of incompetence, it really scares you?
 You're not (crosstalk) - 
 Yeah, you're not being how you're needed to be.
 Mm-hmm. Can you - 
  - do that.
 And it's almost not even just the probably let it... can I respond in other situations but what does that mean about me as a person?
 Am I an unresponsive person? Like what you said, people thought you were a cold person. Am I a cold person?
 (Crosstalk)
 It doesn't (crosstalk) - 
 Right.
 Right. You're dissatisfied with the way you are now.
 You want changes and you want them quick.
 Yeah, like are you growing? Are you as grown as you should be?
 Yeah. Like you can see - 
  - you can see how you've changed, but it's... you're just not the person you want (inaudible).
 We do have to stop. I have another - 
 (inaudible). Now look - 
 So, um, so what's, this is, uh, the evaluation?
 Yeah, so, what's the story?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 That's true, you're working at home?  And weekends to keep up?
 So he says, "He needs to show significant sustainable improvement in the next two week period."
 "I'll have to show real movement," "he needs to show," "he has the knowledge and confidence to handle projects."  What does that mean?  I mean, in his discussions with you?
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Does he say that?
 Um-hum.
 And he's giving you a heads up that it's possible that he [INAUDIBLE].
 Right, that's true.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Well -
 It, well, the answer is, it's on the table.  In other words, um, I talked to you about considering disclosing that you're being treated for, for something.  Did anything happen with that?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Well, here's the thing.
 One thing is disclosing that you have a, a condition which is protected under the Americans With Disabilities Act.
 You know, because again, they're supposed to make every reasonable, um, accommodation to allow you to perform well on the job.
 So it gives you additional protection.  Other than their, uh, due process, you know, they do something and then they report it and they check in again or report it, you know, uh, so in addition to that, it gives you additional protection.  Now, you could go on short term disability, but the thing is, you need to be good when you get back.
 If you, if you go out and you come back and you're a little better but you're not really that much better, it's not going to help you.  If you, I would say if [INAUDIBLE] you go out on disability and you come back and you're fine, then they won't forget that you were out.  But if you go out and you're only a little bit better and it drags on -
 And then people think, oh, it's hope, you know what I mean?
 So we can, it, I would only do it if you thought it was really going to help things.  Now, um, to what extent do you feel that there's still, it, it's hard, I know, because it's chicken and the egg.  I mean, the way that you're being treated is making you feel worse.
 But to what extent do you feel that there's still depression that's, um, interfering with your performance and to what extend do you feel there's still inattention [INAUDIBLE] interferes?
 No, I think it's because you're on unusually, you're on a very low dose of the Adderall now.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Well, you're on the, the highest dose of, uh, of the Wellbutrin I can give you.
 Um, not to say that's not more that we could, couldn't do in terms of treating your depression, but for that medicine, you're on as much as you can be.  The Adderall, it's always been a low dose because you and the boss both notice, oh, you're better that week you're on it, so we left you on that same dose.
 We felt it was helping.
 So, do you notice that it helps less throughout the day, or it, or it poops out too soon, do you have a sense of what's going on?
 Like, is it fine in the morning but not working in the afternoon, or is it not working that much the whole day?
 All right, so why don't we increase -
 Okay.  And I would go, but you feel that it works for the whole work day?
 I mean, and the duration is long enough, doesn't fall off like by 3:00, 4:00 or whatever?
 No?
 Yeah.
 Okay.  All right.  So, uh, why don't we go to 20?
 Um, there may be a 15 but I, I think, given the circumstances, we probably don't want to fool around, I mean, I don't think we're going to overshoot it this way, and I think it will be more helpful.
 Um, but there's o, you know, there's all these different [INAUDIBLE] here's another medicine.
 It's essentially the same thing, it's a slow release Adderall, um, but it's kind of a variation of being, seems, seems to last little longer, couple hours longer, that's why I keep asking you -
 Is in duration or is it total effect?
 So, I would stick with what we have, to not change too many things and, and go up and see if we recapture the improvement.  You think that there is in, inattention is, is playing a role in these, uh, errors?  I mean, I understand what once they're on your case, they're -
 On your case, but -
 Right.
 But, but, but you did feel that you had made fewer errors when we added it, and now you feel it's not working as well, so -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 So we'll, we're going to keep you on the same [INAUDIBLE].  Do you, does that coup, uh, I had given you like a card or a coupon, so that works for a couple more times?
 I know, but when you go for a refill, you still have that card?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Can you ask him?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And we could fill out the forms, but -
 The question is, um, do you think that you're, I mean, you, you told me that your mood was much better on this medicine, but you think it's fallen back?
 Your mood and your concentration -
 Both have fallen back.
 Well -
 Right.
 Now because, um, there's more that we can do for mood symptoms, there's definitely more that we can do for concentration.  I mean, you probably developed a little bit of tolerance initially that the 10, which is a modest dose, worked well, but then after a while, you know, wasn't doing as much.
 So what we're doing -
 In a sense -
 But -
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Right.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.  Well, I think that it's going to be better [INAUDIBLE] increase the Adderall, so the question is whether you should go out on disability.  Um -
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Well, I understand.  But we ought to do whatever we need to do to protect you.  In other words -
 Can you, off the record, talk with your boss and say, look, um, I am going for help.  I'm definitely doing better, but there's a lag, it's a process, takes a while.  If, if, if I'm going to get better, not in time to make enough improvement, then can he give you a heads up, can he tell you, look, you know, maybe you should take some time off because then you can continue our process, get you better, better, [INAUDIBLE].
 You know what I'm saying?
 If there's, if there's any doubt, maybe you should take a leave because -
 You've told him enough -
 Right.
 Right, but it's part of his job.  So again, if you can say to him, look, uh, again, off the record, can he say to you, look, I don't think you're going to, at the rate you're improving, you're not going to make it, or no, I think you're fine.  That, that's what the, you know, because if you're not improving at a fast enough rate, then you should take the short term disability, we should see if we can get you better, and then you have a new opportunity when you come back, to hopefully be good from the get go, and then hopefully get off of probation, you know?
 Right.
 Can she advise you, you know, uh, I'm, I'm trying to get -
 I'm trying to get some, uh, side information.  I, I -
 Can she say, can, if you said to her, do you think it would be better for me at this time, given what's going on, to, and if she says yes, then we should do it, right?
 Well, you know, it's like everything else, depends on the person.  I mean, they work for the company, they know who's paying them, but they're supposed to have a somewhat at, autonomous role where they're helping people perform well because that's the reason it exists.
 If, if it didn't exist, they might have more problems with people being out and sick and not, you know, so if they can facilitate people being out when they need to be out and getting better and so forth and that, they're helping the company's productivity, presumably, I guess.  I'm sure they're not doing it out of the goodness of their hearts -
 They're doing it because they feel it's going to help their bottom line.
 So, all right, so let's go up on that.  So the same [INAUDIBLE] but go up to two, you, you can take the two 10s that you have, you just, boom, tomorrow morning you take two 10s.
 Until you use those up, and then you could fill this.  Plus that will tell us how it's going, when you take the two 10s.
 And I, I guess I'm basically saying if you, if there's any doubt, then I would take the leave because it offers you some protection.
 But, um, uh -
 Well, we're -
 We're trying to get you better -
 Before there's any ramifications there -
 But if, if, if we don't want to be a week short or something.
 Right.
 But we've only been at this -
 Like a little over a month.
 And so we're trying -
 To go, uh, quickly, maybe -
 Right.
 Right.  But it, but again, maybe that needs to be explained.  You've only gotten -
 You know, and you don't have to disclose, but you could say I've only gotten the proper help for, you know, last, you know, six weeks, so, and we're working on it, but -
 I don't want to come up a dollar short or whatever, you know.
 Hold on to it because I'll fill it out if, if need be, but -
 Right.
 Well, we don't have to have the paperwork in by [DATE].  You have to declare your, you know, that you're going to take the leave by then, and then, you know, you could drop off the paperwork and blah blah blah.  So, you know, we don't have to have it completed by then, but we have to decide in the next week, so that's why I'm saying, if there's any information you can get from either of those people, um, you know, if they kind of plead the Fifth, then I would probably take the leave because they are, like you say -
 Thing to do -
 Yeah?
 Right.
 Well, where are you at?  You feel like you'd rather just take the leave now?
 Yeah.
 It looks bad.
 All right, so then, take the leave.  Maybe, you know, finish out the week and then take the leave.
 All right, so leave me the -
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Right.
 No, you really do what's going to be best.
 How, how about we plan to meet in a week, how's that?
 How about 7:00 on next Wednesday?
 Yeah.
 Oh, base, softball.
 Yeah, we keep running into that.
 No one else wants to do it?
 All right.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Interview 6. Interview 6. Robinson counselor. Interview 6.
 It's okay for now, but what about all that other stuff?
 When you say you're not sure of how much understanding when you're... what happens when you're depressed, do you mean what caused you to be depressed or why things look so bleak when you're depressed or...
 It's like you may be feeling okay now, but you know that that confusion of who you are, what you're really like, are you being real, like but that's still part of you because it's still part of you being depressed.
 Well, I'm just not sure exactly what you're saying then. I'm having...
 That's... it's like it's kind of very unsettling to kind of sense that that's real, that is real in you to feel that way.
 Feel that kind of fog and unsureness.
 It's not showing its real ugly face like itself. It's not having all its affects, but it kind of... it's like standing there in the background and you can feel its effects kind of... maybe not its effects, but you know it's present and you know it's there, and it really, really unsettles you I sense to kind of sense to know that it's there.
 You haven't... it's like you haven't had to really deal with it.
 Like they bring out the things in you, you like best in yourself.
 It's like you do really feel kind of like the things you don't like about yourself, but how you do feel about yourself or the unsureness about yourself that you do feel when you feel down. It's just still really all there. 0:06:31.8
 Right, and it's kind of like you'll lose anything you have now and I... is part of it something like this like, "Look, I know it is inevitable that it's going to come out. I just don't like what it does to me and I want to kind of undo what it does to me."?
 How about the parts about yourself you don't like? Why don't you start now by talking about it? Now, what do I feel like and how did it make you feel about yourself? 0:08:24.6
 It looks like it disturbs you anyway.
 I want you to say whatever you really do want to say, the words you would take to describe what the sense is you do have of those things. I mean, the way you look at them. It may not be the way you look at them... you looked at them previously. I don't know. I can't put the words in your mouth.
 Perhaps it might lead us... take us somewhere where it hasn't. You know, no guarantee, but I kind of sense... are you feeling kind of a little disturbed or something that...
 Because I kind of sense that you look a little fidgety or something that you're talking about this stuff. I don't mean that it's disturbing stuff, but where the hell is this coming from.
 I think I remember this. I remember the first time when you talked about it, kind of as you talked about it like you didn't really kind of sense, and you kind of feel now the realness for you. Like you were talking about them abstractly and they were concerns, but you weren't concerned.
 Well, that's precisely why it doesn't almost change in a way. I don't know if you understand that. That's a little complicated. When you say things about yourself in the same ways you've always said them about yourself, they don't produce any change when you say them. You know what I mean? They're like saying clich�s about yourself. They don't do anything for you and the whole thing is to be able to say things that it does kind of produce some kind of change in the way you do feel about those things. So try to say them in new ways or maybe old things but...
 In other words, the truth may be in the old things that you said, in your standard way of saying them, but they don't articulate the truth; that is they don't make you feel what it's all about. You just say them. Do you understand that?
 What I'm saying is it's precisely the thing that you have your set thing that may indeed kind of... it's like compartmentalized. It's got lines. It's got a script. It's got... it's in a file, but that's precisely that thing that may keep it there.
 Right. To say new words, what new, fresh images would come to your mind in trying to talk about it? Do you understand what I'm saying?
 Yes. Do you find like you're just trying to look at the things you know you feel bad about yourself? It's like you slip into those habitual things and...
 Well, why don't you try to think of those? Maybe something is going to try to... try to imagine how you... try to get yourself in a sense how it felt and that you feel the darkest, gloomiest things about yourself. I don't know maybe the words and maybe it's just what come to your mind, but how do you feel about what you see and what you do see.
 As you look back, or you might try to get a sense of that now what it's like. Do you see what I mean?
 I mean, like I know you're feeling good now but it's... you can feel any way. You really...
 I know that sounds terribly hard to do.
 Is it kind of like when you do feel really down it's like you can't even stand not to see things around you go out and...
 You're consumed with yourself and you gloom in a way.
 Do you want to be comforted?
 But why?
 Do you want to know that people can respond to you? Do you want to know that there are people there?
 It's like you want them, but it's like you're really not sure that they'll be kind of really there to carry the weight.
 Sure, but you knew they were, so maybe...
 Kind of like you're seen by them and probably maybe other people as kind of a person who does like to.
 Say that again. I think there's something there.
 You just look dramatic.
 Well, what do you... I mean, it's kind of like the drama, the really kind of sitting there and showing it dramatically, you kind of like to know that you can at least have an effect on somebody. Is it something like that?
 Like when you feel really down, like you know it gives you a little something to kind of know that you can have an effect. You kind of like need it don't you think?
 You what?
 Like it's been the way you went for a hell of a long time, but it's like something like when your momma told you, but then you don't see yourself as doing, but "Is that me? Who me? Who are you talking about?", because you don't want that to be you. 0:21:31.1
 Whether you're just kind of playing a role.
 Well, that's like being dramatic. You say you don't like it. Why? Because being dramatic is like playing a role. Is it being real or is it kind of going through the motions of looking super real?
 Uh-huh. And that's really a concern for you. You want other people to like you.
 You know like what effect does this have on other people?
 Right. What you're doing, but that's kind of like... there's kind of like for the first cause for this time or something maybe, like you do want to have an effect, but then when you sit back and look at yourself doing it, boy, you're kind of, "What kind of effect do I have?"
 Maybe this is kind of like... when you say you keep it in, are you keeping in the dramatic thing or keeping in expressing what you're feeling?
 It's kind of like... either way it's kind of like it just doesn't come by itself, expressing it. It's some kind of way that feels right or...
 Well, it's a habit. It's the way you've learned to be and express things to other people. I guess that's what you were saying. People back in your hometown saw that, too. 0:25:49.0
 Sure, it's like it gets reinforced or maybe you get a reaction. People come over to you. That's your own metaphor. I don't know, maybe not metaphor but...
 Well, when you find yourself being what you call... or what you would call dramatic, does it feel like right natural to you?
 Do you feel like you're saying it as it is for you?
 Well, I'm...
 What do you mean by that? As to why you... how does that communicate? What about? 0:27:47.0
 Yeah, but that doesn't sound like the kind of being dramatic where you're expressing what you're feeling.
 It's okay to kind of laugh and we get into that.
 Well, I guess what you're wondering, what bothers you is kind of like the... when you're dramatically sitting around depressed. 0:29:34.8
 I've noticed that. That's like a very... that seems to be the... like the real important criteria for you is how does it come across to other people.
 Well, why do you want that because you would have been friends?
 But there it's like disapproval is...
 Yeah, it is approval. You don't want their approval, but I guess people who are important to you, it's a different thing.
 It's kind of like what gives you your... a sense of self is not from inside yourself, but it's from other people's responses to you whether you're friendly or not.
 It's like you're really dependent on that and that becomes the way when you feel something about yourself that people approve of you for doing it.
 Well, how do you feel when you see yourself doing that? Okay, you're saying these things about yourself on depending on other people. How does it make you feel about yourself?
 You feel like you're not your own master.
 It's kind of like it's setting aside the system of how do you view yourself.
 View yourself.
 Sort of like... yeah, I guess I was trying to find out how did it make you feel? I see that it's kind of inconsistent, but I really I don't have a sense of... see like I know if I... that's a pretty heavy thing to say about yourself, and then really you know that we depend on other people, but what does that do to you? How does it make you...
 Yeah, it makes sense, but I guess I'm still trying to...
 I was trying to get a reaction out of you, a self-reaction to yourself, and I feel like, I guess, I'm having a hard time getting it. With the things you're saying to me, it makes me want to be another way or...
 So it gives you kind of a... there's kind of the anger... the anger at yourself is kind of... I sense it's kind of complicated, because what you're saying the anger at yourself is for not letting yourself just let yourself be whatever way you are, but like you just don't want to be that way.
 Does it kind of make you feel inadequate or kind of...
 It undermines kind of your whole... your whole self, looking at the whole way you feel about yourself.
 Well, it's kind of like you can accept yourself, but like you start to be punitive about yourself, towards yourself.
 Well, it's kind of like... to the extent of like you're seeing things that you don't like to the extent of maybe this isn't right, seeing that they can be good in those things that you don't like, too, like imposing a kind of rigid set of standards on yourself.
 But then kind of wanting yourself to fit that mold of the standards when you don't.
 Like you can say like limitations is kind of your looking. The choice of the word on this comes from that mold you're putting on yourself.
 Right. It's kind of like... kind of it's defined from a negative in a way. So it's kind of like it's always in that column.
 Right. It's kind of like... it's hard to see, to accept it and to see that it does have good things, kind of when you did say, "Well, I like that when I'm joyfully dramatic", period, but that's a something. Do you see what I'm saying? It's kind of like you take the... in other words in talking about it, too, you take the framework of the standards, like that's more you. Your standards are more you than the way you really are.
 Do you see what I mean?
 I mean, that's I guess what I meant. I mean, it's kind of like... I mean, certainly, you are what you are, but the way you look at yourself is from the standpoint of what you're not, what you want of yourself. Kind of like you just don't let yourself be. 0:43:31.9
 You mean kind of like when you're not imposing the standards. You can just...
 Do you really go through all that sometimes?
 Pull yourself back into it.
 Why? What happened?
 All right. I think the simpler solution would be not to go to parties.
 You mean it's an example of kind of deciding, flicking a switch. This is the person I'll be.
 You may do that in smaller ways, like in smaller actions.
 Do you often, like when you go about interacting with people, interact kind of with the knowledge of what kind of way you want to appear as a person?
 You wanted to show that.
 You mean the substance besides the credentials stuff?
 But why? What caused you to have to... like what you were saying, it might not be able to be heard on its own grounds and you need the credentials to sound more sincere?
 But is that kind of hoping... like an example of kind of... in other words, like other times where you just know me, but kind of decide you want to appear a way?
 You want to show a face.
 Yeah, I guess I got the thing about what you're saying it's like the theater. It's almost like putting on the makeup or the mask for the...
 Like you may be being too hard on yourself.
 This is Client 0518-014, Session No. 18 - May 17, 1971
 Oh, wow.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I'm good generally.
 I'm not so good right today but... 
 Oh, (chuckling) oh, never mind, it's a long story.
 Yeah, it does that.
 Oh, right.
 Nostalgic?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it was a dead avocado.
 That's nice.
 Yeah.
 But the quality, even though it's nice to feel, the quality of your feeling is sad, right?
 Yeah, all your fucked up relationships and knowing that the next ones are going to be fucked up?
 Or these are going to stay?
 Yeah.
 I don't understand. It makes you - what? It makes you happy that people are going to disperse or no more hangups?
 Yeah, and that's it?
 You'll get a fresh start?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You're not there?
 Yeah.
 Yes. That's - no, you can have it. That was for you. (chuckling)
 Yeah, I think so, I'm [pretty sure.] (ph)
 Yeah, somewhat.
 Yeah. And I feel...like I feel like crying.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, they're good. [inaudible at 0:05:46.7]... 
 Good.
 Yeah. [silence from 0:06:07.0 to 0:06:29.8]
 Yeah. I have this... 
 ...with a little allergies this time I think and so... [inaudible at 0:06:35.5]
 No, no. I live over in Long Island. A friend of mine who, Joseph Parr lives in that house. Do you live where, next door there?
 Oh.
 Okay.
 Oh, so that's difficult?
 Yeah, it is.
 Yeah.
 Because it's sunny?
 Yeah. It was very gray before?
 Right.
 Yeah. (chuckling)
 Yeah. Maybe partly because I'm so packed here. I've had... 
 Maybe so. I just wanted to take a walk and so... 
 ...walk it off because I feel crappy...and... 
 Oh. (chuckling)
 Oh, I see.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 Well I don't feel like that.
 Yeah. I mean, well what do I mean? I mean if you want to stop for you then we should stop. But if you want to stop partly for me, I don't want to.
 Yeah, right. [silence from 0:10:29.9 to 0:10:42.5]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Partly also you feel like I'm being here not wanting to be here? And like...uh! Who want's that?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I don't - I really don't feel that way. In fact saying it got it off my mind. I don't feel half someplace anymore.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, because that's... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Part of what you feel is that the therapy is a barrier between us?
 [And if it would've been besides, it wasn't when you went into it?] (ph)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. But at any rate it hasn't come to very much?
 Yeah. You felt constrained and imposed upon, right?
 And that wasn't what you what you wanted to do. You wanted to... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah. But...the main thing you... 
 Yeah.
 Oh, well I just got caught by what you said there at the very last, just that...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Like you - yes. Yes, I think I know what you mean. Like you mean today?
 That and like you can't get down into anything and do anything with it but - because you have to sort of just convey information.
 Yeah, yes.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Right. Partly you don't want to kind of like delve into icky stuff when you could be feeling good today? And that is nice.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, no.
 Yeah, liked her very much... 
 ...really got in touch with her.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. It's just having that really good contact making with her just - I don't know, it illustrates more of the distance between us in the way you're not making contact with me and you're not making contact with me as a person.
 Yeah.
 Do you feel rejected by me a little?
 Today maybe... 
 Maybe.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I mean there's...like I'm not your girlfriend and...like Cathy.
 I am seeing you as part of my job.
 Yeah.
 Which?
 I guess it makes me feel a little relieved or something. I, yeah. Yeah. Because I've been getting angry or like I feel really pressured.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. If we were really used, like therapy with me is not what you want or whether... [0:25:14.7]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Are you feeling now like, 'oh, I wish I could start this over again' or 'that wasn't really exactly what I wanted to do.' (chuckling)
 Not that the feelings weren't real but that... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 What did it do to you when I got mad?
 In the sense of like, well that's real?
 Right.
 What? No. I mean what do you mean? Trying to... 
 I mean the way you said it almost sounds like that was an agenda or something, to see if you could?
 Do you mean, do you mean like you feel bad and like well, it's only appropriate that I should feel bad, too?
 Yeah. I mean to me it doesn't - I think it did hurt me, even though like...if someone had asked me I would've said, 'well, I don't think she did get very much out of it.'
 I don't know. Maybe because you were already into feeling the stuff a whole bunch already. So, more feeling stuff...big deal. I don't know. [0:31:18.3]
 I'm getting there? (chuckling)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I mean, no.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well I work at the, what's going to be the [Comp. Set Center] (ph). You know the... 
 Did you know that the [inter vista] (ph) was coming? Yeah, right. That we're going to start a new place at the [inaudible]... bank building. Work on my thesis perhaps.
 Yeah. [inaudible]... Oh it's just, when you said that before I was just thinking, you see the therapy in the past tense, disappointed but not as, not as still going on. Not as, well these three sessions are part of it or something. Which I'm not saying is wrong exactly, because that might be realistic, too. [silence from 0:34:48.1 to 0:34:57.3]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And you want to give it up for a bad job, not sort of... 
 ...stay in it and heal and that's a... [inaudible at 0:36:38.0]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You won't have to just say in this situation, which is all messed up and it's already all messed up and you're already caught in... 
 Especially in ways, not only that it's all messed up, but then a lot because it's so painful. Because the people you really loved you're all at odds with and I think really unhappy about some of whatever it is in you that does that or... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh, you're saying, 'I couldn't face that.'
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Your life really is in a hole. A lot of it is just... [0:41:02.5]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Angry and [hurt you think?] (ph)
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So why the fuck can't he tell you?
 Yeah.
 And sort of left with the frustration and... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You don't want to hear it?
 You don't want to be cut off from him?
 Yeah. You still really enjoy the nice things but...when you talk about all the rest of this stuff, it makes me feel something that I can't quite describe and I'm just like, 'oh!' I guess.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You really need to pull away and not to be caught in a failure that you can't fix.
 That gets at some of the way it feels sad I think.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Go back try again?
 Yeah. It's really icky to talk about rating people that you... [0:50:10.2]
 Yeah.
 Makes you so - yeah, you're sort of... 
 Hate to have ideas like that in your mind.
 Do you want to live?
 Go, go ahead.
 Just that you're afraid you, in their judgment makes you one of the ordinary people, not one of the special people?
 Yeah. Yeah.
 I think I know what you mean. Like it's the kind of values that just make you wince and like you don't want to feel that way and that's... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well I guess going away - is it like this, because you didn't say this but - if you leave you would, you're afraid you'll lose touch with the people here and the kind of people here and be excluded from something that you want to be included in?
 Being ignored and stuff and being out of it and stuff.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But you have to love someone in order to feel like you're in the right place.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah. And, but it was if a way you're disgusted with yourself, too. Embarrassed too, I think.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah, yeah. But like if you listen to someone you're afraid of that someone being sort of status seeking... [overlapping voices at 0:56:09.0]
 Right.
 Something vague - it doesn't sound right to me either, but something vaguely in that, like that. Something to do with... 
 Yeah.
 Or it's just... 
 Yeah. Okay. I was just thinking about that in a way, because I was thinking about your seeing that kid and wanting to start over again. Like not like wanting to be yourself but wanting to - wanting to grow up not so fucked up or something, to have another chance of coming out better?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I think mostly you have some feeling like you should already have done a whole lot more than you have about being mature and stuff. That... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 She's together, too.
 And that somehow seeing Katie is somehow, especially because she doesn't like you, it just... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, right.
 It does, yeah.
 What?
 Well so did you think... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I have to stop now.
 What do you want to do about the last two appointments? Do you want to come in and... 
 Okay.
 Yeah. (chuckling)
 My next - [silence from 1:02:09.7 to 1:02:31.1] sometime on Friday?
 I don't know.
 No. I think it will work. I just have to figure when - can you come at one?
 Okay. [silence from 1:02:56.0 to 1:03:03.2] Yeah, that's a good idea (ph). [silence from 1:03:05.3 to 1:03:19.4 - then it starts with a new session, same client, to end of audio]
 This is Session No. 2 on Wednesday, November 18th.
 Sure.
 Yeah, I do know. Where were you?
 And what did he say?
 So it's like you didn't mean anything and... [overlapping voices at 0:03:04.7]
 Yeah. Even though you didn't want to marry him... [overlapping voices]
 ...asking you was when he told you he didn't want to... 
 ...that that made you feel really... [overlapping voices at 0:03:45.1]... 
 So and he would like trick you?
 How is it for you now? I mean does he, can you just look back and laugh at that or is it still with you?
 But first you were saying it's sort of hard for you to trust anybody because they... 
 ...lie to you?
 Like you have some places where you're okay then?
 So it's more like an attitude that's been directed at you personally? [0:08:55.8]
 Yeah.
 For someone to care about you when you were being... 
 ...shipped out from place to place?
 So if I hear you right, you just like recently, barely recently, gone through an awful lot of changes?
 And you thought that you'd maybe finished and now it's time to go on to other things and you didn't (ph) think that was true.
 So there you are just watching all that happen?
 About yourself?
 Like you'd like it to happen... 
 ...right now!
 You do it and also you expect other people to do it to you?
 Yeah.
 [inaudible]... 
 Right.
 Yeah. You really like her... 
 ...and...she's really warm to you and like that but that makes it harder because you're always feeling like you're one down.
 Sort of like being on the edge of a cliff you mean?
 It's a long way down.
 What is the fence like?
 It came just now?
 When you were talking about your, the person you were living with you mean?
 Can you try, just settling in with that feeling and seeing where it takes you? I mean just like...letting it be for a minute and seeing what would come to you from that feeling about your roommate? You know, kind of stop it a minute and if let go? [silence from 0:18:19.5 to 0:18:38.4]
 Yeah.
 Just like never quite good enough.
 [inaudible at 0:19:30.0]... 
 So it's more like always comparing yourself to... [overlapping voices at 0:20:39.3]
 So it's always, you always see yourself as losing somehow that... 
 ...you didn't get what was coming to you?
 It's like somebody cheated me or somebody... 
 But that's the feeling?
 I know and it made you feel kind of guilty or... [overlapping voices]
 But still... 
 That sometime they're always going to turn away from you?
 Right.
 It sounds like with your roommate, like you feel really close to her but that's going to stop somehow. Like you always have to be afraid of something.
 Yeah. So like you had to do everything you could to keep her.
 Kind of make it up to her?
 So you feel you never meant anything to your mother?
 [It's all right.] (ph) [crying harder from 0:27:42.9 to 0:29:14.2]
 [You don't have to be sorry that.] (ph) It's good for you to be able to... [inaudible - overlapping weeping] She really wasn't there and you needed her to be there.
 Sure. [still crying - trying to calm down from 0:29:42.8 to 0:29:59.9]
 If they're not going to be there for you. [crying from 0:30:08.2 to 0:30:22.4]
 And he went away, too?
 It's all right. It's really important to get that out.
 That's all right, it will come.
 That's a long time of being lonely.
 Like that's a lot to feel.
 Forgive you anything?
 Like she doesn't even care about that and that's a big thing for her.
 Even that?
 It's like you keep going to her and she never gives you anything?
 Like you really want her to know that and somehow you want a closeness between you somehow.
 It's like pretty awful?
 But you can't get it from the people you really want to get it from?
 She'd go away, too?
 So you, the world is kind of shaky to you?
 Like you don't know... 
 ...where you're getting anything from?
 Yeah.
 It's just like sticking your tongue in the swimming pool or something and getting drowned...or something like that.
 Wow.
 Sure. Sure.
 You're saying you didn't get close to them in the first place really?
 But then when you turn on them it's all blown up and when you... [overlapping voices]
 Can you try and get into that? Like there's a lot of truth there I mean.
 It's almost like since people always go away from you like there's no reason to think that.
 So you're saying they really liked me and I'm going to do those things for them. But then you feel like they're turning away... 
 ...and you can't.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Like I'm going to give you hurt.
 That was your power.
 [inaudible]...nobody to care about you.
 So you really were left out and run down?
 And what you remember is that you were pretty easily hurt all the time that was happening?
 So people couldn't see even then?
 (making blowing sound)
 [inaudible]... 
 And then here you've done this bad thing.
 Yeah.
 And somehow you were bad.
 And you said that there was - I heard you saying there was a thread there that somehow you were always expecting people to see something bad in you. [0:51:38.0]
 Something could protect you. Some kind of continuity was there.
 Yeah. And you knew that was important to them.
 (chuckling) But it still feels a little scary, right?
 And drain it and drain it for every drop it's worth.
 That's like a real opposite... 
 ...in you life.
 Yeah. If you can just be in control then you can pull people to you and you'd always have someone to care about you.
 But you have that, I mean like there you feel really strong and competent and good about yourself.
 And that's a really... 
 Put it up for the wall and everything... [overlapping voices at 0:57:15.7]
 So like there you're really satisfied with yourself? [0:57:48.9]
 So it was like admiring her and that was one way that you wanted to be maybe?
 Yeah, it could be worse. (chuckling)
 And you really feel like you can do that and you feel like confident in that?
 It sounds good to get it out in the open you know.
 As long as you don't get it out in the air then it comes out in other ways.
 [So you have the question of like maybe on how to act on the way you feel?] (ph) [1:04:12.8]
 Like there's this whole unexplored thing with him.
 A blank where... [inaudible at 1:05:20.3]
 Well now our time is up.
 [1:05:53.4 - blank and then inaudible whispering]
 And that's just Wednesday?
 Yeah.
 See you.
 Side 1, Track 1, December 9th, December 9th, Austin counselor, Interview 6, Interview 6. Client 1927-1112, Interview 6, Side 1, Track 1.
 How's that?
 You have a what?
 I suggest the car does sound like something to be depressed about.
 Yeah, I know.
 Yeah.
 You don't expect it with a two-year-old car.
 You wouldn't expect it with a two-year-old car.
 It sounds like where you are right now (cross talk).
 What were we talking about?
 Sounds like you're not very happy about remembering.
 You somehow kind of then did. It felt good to know that the way that...
 Don't have that feeling right now, remembering it.
 Had the content but not the feeling of it.
 Doesn't do much for you now.
 In what way? What I'm asking, I guess, is for you to say more about it.
 Yeah. Also I guess it is hard because in a way - because I guess it's mostly from the way you're saying it. Maybe it's because you came in feeling depressed and, you know, it's like you've been feeling better, but right at this moment you're not, in a sense, reaping the harvest of that feeling.
 Yeah.
 Right, yeah, it's just...
 It's not like a [life breaking open] (ph). It has its own, you know...
 Sure. I get unhappy when my - if I need a tire or something.
 Okay.
 Mentioned him related to what?
 You said that your mother... Didn't you say that your mother kind of like bossed him around?
 Sounds like you're more and more like him, like you kind of withdraw from wanting to take on needs and being involved like that in a way that doesn't make you feel good about yourself.
 Yeah, that's kind of like you don't think of yourself - I guess that's kind of what you were talking about. Remember when you were talking about what it would mean if you couldn't meet these needs...
 ...and you - so you kind of meet that - all kind of sense of yourself as a person would really be the curtain shattered. It's kind of like you see yourself on the one hand as wanting to be that kind of person who can meet needs. Again, on the other hand, having - afraid of it and wanting to withdraw from it. 0:10:13.3
 Like unless it filled all kind of structured he wouldn't go anywhere?
 Yeah. It's kind of like... Is that the kind of thing like if you take the road map metaphorically, you know, like you would respect him to know things and understand things and not feel confused or uncertain about things. Is that a similarity? I mean do you see that as kind of...
 Why? It upsets you because like...
 The things you don't like in him are things you see in yourself and they're things you just don't like in yourself.
 Kind of how does that make you feel when you kind of, in a sense, realize that there are these things in you that you can't accept? 0:14:00.7
 You have the bad parts too.
 And I - this is something like this period, you're kind of - as you see kind of the facets of them in you, it really makes you question and just wonder, and really about just the kind of person you are, the kind of parent you'd be.
 When you see kind of these facets, the bad facets of them in you, when you see how you mirror those things in a way, reflect those things, it really makes you kind of doubt and disturbed about kind of really what type of person you are and I guess what kind of parent you could be.
 Yes, it's...
 Yeah, it's... The image is kind of a little more kind of as you stand and look at yourself you just see that you're not the person that you'd like to be, but there's also kind of a more almost immediate thing of you're just not being the kind of person you know would make you happy.
 It's kind of like - I guess it's not just that you couldn't be happy, it's like the thought of you being a parent in that way, like your parents were to you, really upsets you and the thought of you doing that makes you quite unhappy. Like I said...
 It's like you don't want to be the kind of parent that your parents were to you.
 They're the things you remember and I guess kind of the things that kind of stand there when other things are washed away through time.
 But also the things that kind of strongly had an effect on you too.
 How do you feel?
 A combination of what?
 Why don't you see if you can kind of draw the script together (ph).
 Withdraw from you or withdraw from me or what?
 Terminating...
 Did you feel angry at me? 0:28:21.9
 When you felt that madness, I mean what were you thinking about? Do you know what I mean? Like in what context was it?
 So the anger kind of was in a context of somehow like what you are and the way you are. It leads to some kind of inability to let loose? See, I'm still having a hard time getting my hand on it [other than your car] (ph). Angry about your whole inability to do that? 0:30:29.6
 I'm not exactly sure about that, but I mean I guess you're saying somehow, you just sitting there, some kind of sense of anger welled up inside of you.
 I want to go back to something you said because it wasn't quite clear to me. That was kind of like, when you're talking about with that complexity of feelings that you couldn't put your hand on, the first thing you said was "I kind of had a feeling that there was a sense of withdrawal which led to some kind of thinking about termination." Now, I didn't understand. That meant termination of therapy; what goes along with that or what's that about? 0:32:50.6
 Um-hmm, well, let me - because it's something you haven't talked about.
 Well, I had the feeling like you were feeling a sense of withdrawal in stopping therapy or something and I was wondering why or...
 Kind of like you somehow kind of felt yourself going distant or something and...
 It hit heavy, the car.
 Sounds like you really don't know why you felt that way, you're right.
 You think of maybe different things it could be, but I guess the sense of the feeling was a sense of questioning or something, detachment or something like that for whatever reason, feeling a kind of unsureness about it all and of therapy.
 Kind of [the faceted] (ph) when you were thinking about therapy in terms of when I guess you were saying the net gain was like this (inaudible at 37:30) about what could be gotten in whatever, 14, 15 more sessions that there are. Was there kind of a doubt about he answer to the - I mean a doubt about it?
 Close to you?
 Things you could put your hands on.
 Is what you're saying is like when you first started you just kind of like - there were concrete things that bothered you and that you wanted to work on and then you could think you knew what they were, you could put your hand on them, and it's what you're saying now is like can't feel anything that concrete that's there and it's like [go before] (ph) and it's like those things have seemed better, and don't have anything like that. Have maybe something diffused but I don't know exactly what - I don't know what you have. I guess you're saying you don't know what you have. So kind of like just feeling not sure of that. When I don't have something concrete what can I gain? .
 Yeah. See, because I guess I kind of sense this, like, there are things about you that disturb you about you. You know what I mean? Make you feel bad about you too. So it's - when you think about the movie (ph)...
 I kind of felt very kind of - the last time when you talked to me you talked about, you know, your sense of what it could be like if you really failed and (inaudible at 42:12). Sense that that was a very meaningful thing for you. 0:42:15.0
 What did you mean? You looked at me [like that] (ph) and you smiled. You're thinking something...
 No, yeah, well, no. I feel kind of funny, because I feel like you really are at a loss for not knowing where to go. You know me, I kind of feel that where you go is what feels most important for you. And I don't want to tell you where to go, but yet somehow I feel like I'm suggesting you could go there, and I don't quite even feel comfortable in doing that. 
See, I guess what I'm saying is that I don't really know where you should go, but I guess the kind of things that feel most important to you, most disturbing to you, is where to go. I mean I wasn't suggesting that to go back to that, so much as saying I guess like what you talked about last time was not something concrete that you had come in here to talk about, you see what I mean? Not one of those X number of different things, but yet in a way was something very real to you, very present for you.
 So it's meaningful to talk about. You see I guess what I was saying... When I was saying that I had the sense like that maybe these concrete things may not be there and if you put your hand on some kind of diffuse things that you can focus on...
 Do you know what I mean?
 Yeah, yeah, that's...
 Yeah, that's kind of very much the sense I have on you and I guess that makes for a problem in here.
 Yeah.
 Because I do sense kind of like you are very task-oriented or goal oriented in mood (ph). Maybe it's from your work, but also it's just the general style of your life. And not having goals that you could clearly put your hand on or know what to focus on makes you really feel at a loss I think, or in a sense aimless without a map, you might say.
 Oh, that kind of thought (ph).
 No, that's all right.
 You really kind of, for your money and for your efforts, you just want to have something to show for it.
 Well, I mean maybe that show is sensitive, like a new car to show.
 Something you do know happened.
 Some kind of pressure in a way. In a sense it feels like it's important to you so you...
 You sound kind of hesitant about saying that.
 Have those things.
 Have the returns.
 Don't really know what you want in a way, is that it?
 Yes. Kind of like some things feel more in place now, but now what?
 How so?
 Maybe it's because I don't see it that way. I don't mean to (inaudible at 51:55) I will leave you. It's kind of like you feel, like now having said that, that I have absolutely no idea where to go. 0:52:04.5
 So I guess it's not like - neither did I think like you can say I don't have any responsibility; the clinic will take care of it, I guess I don't feel that. I guess I do feel that you do have responsibility in that and the [rate you want to go and focus on yourself to you] (ph). 
 That's yours. That's your (inaudible at 52:41).
 How does that make you feel?
 You look disturbed.
 And then what were you thinking?
 Another was (ph) kind of your concern was after thinking that thought, thinking like this choice, kind of your first thought in a way was well, what would he think of me for doing that.
 Is that a question?
 I volve (ph) answer, but I don't want to be (inaudible at 55:18). Oh wait, did you mean what I think of you, or what do I think about your quitting?
 Pardon?
 Oh, there's just kind of...
 Oh, I see. It's kind of like it wasn't really the answer that you really wanted so much as that's kind of where you were in your doubt; it was doubtful about what I would think about you and...
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, I see. It's kind of like you could set up a condition in your mind in a way though if I - it's your responsibility. If you don't mean it, then I have reason to quit it. 0:56:50.2
 Well, maybe that was the way I heard it. We do have to stop. Does this feel kind of resolved for you or...
 Good. We can talk about it more next time if you'd like. Is that...
 What's on your mind?
 Um, [sighs] [pauses for five seconds] yikes. [00:01:01]
 Uh, whatever you like — I mean, feel free to roll.
 It sounds like you're furious.
 [Clucks] I don't know a lot about the Assange mess, just a little. Um, the Akin comments — sure.
 Mm.
 That was making your point right there?
 I'm sorry.
 [Exhales]
 [Clears throat]
 Oh.
 Uh-huh.
 Mm.
 Mm-hmm, yep.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Hmm.
 I'm — I'm not, uh, trying to question his judgment; I'm just wondering what was — that's not something often heard from psychiatrists. [00:07:06]
 What was he — what was his thinking?
 I mean, it is not any you were going to want to reduce, but...
 ...Uh, yeah, what was his thinking?
 Uh-huh?
 Right.
 Mm-hmm?
 Hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah, sure, [pauses four seconds] especially in the week your parents have been in town [inaudible at 08:04] (ph) [00:08:06]
 So [pauses for seven seconds] it sounds to me like you're kind of short-circuited by rage at this point?
 Like there's so much that you're so angry about...
 ...You're kind of somewhat shut down?
 Right.
 Right.
 How many (ph)?
 Mm-hmm.
 Yep.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I would imagine it feels pretty miserable most of the time.
 And also that you feel pretty out of control, not of, like, your behavior but, uh, [pauses] like there's nothing you can do about it, really. [00:11:08]
 [It is not need to coming along] (ph) to piss you off.
 Sorry, I'm just — I'm thinking about it. Um, [pauses for 25 seconds]
 I guess, um, [pauses 44 seconds] —
[00:13:00]
Right - I mean, I remember last time [pauses for five seconds] I think we were talking about something pretty closely related to do with, [pauses] um, [pauses] kind of your vulnerability around all of this.
 Uh, [pauses for 11 seconds] and [pauses for 15 seconds] —
[00:14:00]
I guess one question that I'm [something drops] struggling with...
 ...Which is going to sound stupid, so let me explain myself. [Chuckles] Or maybe it is just stupid, but I'll still try to explain myself. Is — so, like, for example with your family...
 Why? Um, [pauses] I could've even predicted, let alone you, that they would have made any number of comments...
 ...Or tried to, you know, however they baited you into talking politics.
 Um, [pauses] I don't mean by that it is still surprising you'd be upset. God knows I'm not trying to justify the way they were acting or treating you... [00:15:00]
 ....But it isn't new.
 [Chuckles] And [pauses] yet there's a kind of [pauses] — I think like a fresh quality to your, like, indignation and anger about it. And I'm not trying to call you irrational; I'm just trying to...
 ...Figure out the reasons that could happen. You know?
 Um, like, [pauses] one that occurs to me [pauses] is — I'm going to [turn it out] (ph), which is an example of something. Maybe you wanted to be different even if you know better...
 ...'Cause they're the only family you've got. [00:16:01]
 And, [pauses] uh [pauses] and it is no point in giving up on the only family you've gotten, either.
 So there's, you know, like hope for them on one hand and a "how could you say that?" feeling on the other.
 Um, [pauses for 25 seconds] — [00:17:00]
Uh, [pauses] another thing could be [pauses for eight seconds] — and this is like something I'm going go on about you again; I've been on it before — I don't think you're just angry; I think you're also terribly hurt. I mean, in each instance, even with the trainer, like...
 ...You know, a lot of them like — this — a lot of insulting of you going on. I — like, which you react in part to really, really mad....
 ...But I think which also really hurts. There's sort of this related... [00:18:00]
 I see.
 I see.
 This is a trip with your family.
 [Exhales] Yeah.
 Yeah, I mean, you told me about, like, how they've been sort of proposing it every year...
 And you didn't believe, when you told them the one week you couldn't go, and, of course, it is the week they booked it, and it looks like it is going to happen and....
 [It is — yeah] (ph)
 If I had asked you beforehand what they were going to do...?
 Yeah?
 I actually...
 You're entirely right! I don't disagree with that [chuckles] at all. And I'm not — I don't actually think this is like, uh...
 ...Expecting (ph) something you didn't want to predict, is what I suspect because... [00:20:04]
 Right.
 Yep.
 And [pauses] how does it make a difference if you don't go on the trip?
 And [pauses] — uh, I'm not bringing this up to try to push you not to go but just to sort of explore some of this...
 Is that that much worse than what would happen anyway?
 It does seem like that's a part of this...
 ...Is the moral high ground part. [00:22:00]
 Um, [pauses] it doesn't sound that satisfying. Not — you know, it is not fair. Um...
 Maybe, [pauses for 12 seconds] um...
 Maybe it does make you feel badly, say, for it to have that, in that it differentiates you from them. [00:23:08]
 That, like, when the shit's really flying around in the family, it can be hard to know who the hell did what to whom...
 ....You know, when the volume goes up and all that. Maybe it is like a — you know, something you can kind of clingy onto.
 Even if it doesn't make you feel good.
 It doesn't make you feel like very much distinct from them, and part of the real world and how people really do things that [seem to hit] (ph) on a good day or something.
 Mm-hmm?
 [Chuckles]
 Well, good luck with that for many reasons.
 Um, [pauses five seconds] then again, it does seem like you hold onto those sort of wish to be in your good regard and hope that, by doing the right things, you can be, and that that will really make a difference in how they treat you?
[Silence for 14 seconds]
 It has never worked before.
 Mm-hmm. [00:26:56]
 Mm.
 Hmm.
 Well, I actually believe these things sort of do tend to make sense. They don't necessarily work, but, I mean, maybe that really does make a difference. Maybe you're really worried you're actually like them or that they're right about something they've said about you, and so anything that helps to, you know, um, make you feel different....
 ...Such as acting morally really matters. [00:29:00]
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Wow. [00:30:01]
 What else comes to mind?
 Good deal. [00:31:58]
 Mm-hmm?
 Right.
 Mm-hmm, good.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm?
 Mm-hmm.
 That's great.
[Silence for 30 seconds]
[00:34:00]
 Mm-hmm?
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm?
 [inaudible at 35:21]
 Yeah.
 Oh, "interject" — yes.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm.
[Silence for nine seconds]
 [Chuckles] Uh-huh.
 What, uh — um, [pauses] — uh, would you mind elaborating [chuckles]?
 I mean, let me also say — so I...
 Uh-huh.
 Oh.
 Yeah, OK. Were there things that really bothered you about him?
 I see.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I'm surprised he asked that.
 Yeah, yeah.
 And you had just been raped. [00:38:01]
 Oh, God.
 Right.
 Right.
 Good.
 Yeah, that clinician — I've secured (ph) one other patient with him a few years ago...
 ...And, um, you know, like, I've heard a few pretty decent reports, but, uh, you know... [00:39:04]
 Uh, yet I know [inaudible 39:07] probably should have [checked in with him once or twice] (ph).
 And, um...
 Oh.
 Right, right.
[Silence for 12 seconds]
[00:40:00]
 That's like kind of a big deal.
 I mean, apart from the vacation. I don't — I don't know...
 I don't know what you've thought about it, but...
 Uh-huh.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 Have you not, um — I guess [at least I am — I don't know if you've talked about it] (ph) — like have you — did you not start that process?
 I mean, I know it is like a whole thing. [00:40:58]
 Uh-huh.
 I see, like a [drive-by] (ph).
 Have you thought much about if you couldn't?
 Mm-hmm. [00:42:00]
 'Cause it makes you so anxious?
 No, no, I — I take it as...
 ...As a somatic thing.
 Yeah. Um, [pauses] to drop it since you just had a [cough and you were turning bright red] (ph).
 Um, are you — is it anxiety or dread, or [pauses] something else? [00:43:00]
 Mm-hmm?
 Your stomach hurting?
 Sure. [Pauses for five seconds] [It is a long cycle] (ph). Yeah, that makes sense. [Chuckles] Like, I mean, yeah. Um, I guess it has been terribly hard to do that.
 And, uh, [pauses for 13 seconds] Well, why don't we stop for now?
 And then we'll talk more tomorrow.
 Yeah.
 Take care.
 Yeah.
[Door opens and closes]
 Hi.
 I'm good, how are you?
 Did you get stuck out there yesterday like I did?
 Did you drive that, what time did you drive that?
 Yeah, I know, that's where I was yesterday.
 I never
 Yeah, well they locked me in the basement for an hour because they said there was a tornado
 Did they do that to you?
 How about driving home?
 Yeah.
 It was scary.
 Did anybody come in the shop?
 It was an experience, yeah.
 No, did that get
 Yeah, they closed the school today too because of flooding, yeah, you weren't flooded where you live.
 Good.
 How are you?
 Good.
 Yeah.
 I bet he was ready to go back.
 What was it like, the [DEIDENTIFIED] trip?  His family was there again?
 All the kids went?
 You didn't feel overwhelmed at all?
 What did you fight about?
 The safety.
 You felt real fragile when you were away.
 Was part of the anxiety being in a new setting or a new place?
 Okay.
 So fear, fear was underlying the tears?
 When you
 Her was attacking you verbally?
 What would he say?
 So he probably uses the sex as a calming device for him.
 He was under stress because he was hurting, he wasn't working.
 When he insists on sex, does it give you flashbacks?
 So it makes you want to pull away?
 The more you pull away, the more upset he gets, so it's a cycle.
 So how do you get through it?
 Does it make you feel used?
 Grudge.
 Then you feel more used?
 Is there a way to avoid that whole type of interaction?
 But just the vehicle to get his needs meet.
 How different do you feel being off it?
 Oh.
 In what way?
 No, you were just on the one 300.
 That goes pretty quick. 
 No mood instability?
 Huh.
 I just wonder if you felt your time was more encroached upon in some way.
 With him there.
 So you let him take on more
 But you're actually feeling better since you went back to work, less pressure
 You get out and do things more.
 Will the baby be in school?
 Exercise?
 That's good.
 Oh.
 Alone or
 Oh yeah
 Maybe she's doing that to kind of make up for something that's going on in her life.
 Try to be kind of more close to you.  It'll be good for both of you.
 Has she talked more to you about the divorce situation?
 So her mood seems a little brighter?
 From where?
 For how long is she home?
 Depressed?
 And you've had no contact with your step dad?
 Your step dad.
 Does she want to get back together with him?
 But she doesn't ask you for your advice.
 And doesn't want
 It's too painful.
 Did you tell her you stopped some of the medications?
 She works what?
 Oh yeah.
 Yeah.
 But it's good that you're not feeling significantly different.
 Even better, you said.
 Huh.
 Well, I mean well keep doing the exercise.
 Are you going to miss her when she goes home?  She's married there?
 He didn't come with her?
 How did she meet him?
 He is?
 So she moved there
 But you miss her
 It was comfortable?
 But not really.
 How come?
 You always focus on what you're not doing.
 Rather than what you do.
 I'm sure they were glad just to see you and spend time.
 Did they seem to be glad to see you?
 Take them to the corn boil?
 I wonder with all the floodings if it's going to happen.
 When I left last night, it was all flooded.
 The downtown.
 Oh yeah, it's really something and I don't know if that river, there's a river on the other side
 That was overflowing.
 You never had problems where you are did you, in [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah the sirens were going off
 In [DEIDENTIFIED]
 You heard them too?
 What were they doing?
 Were they scared?
 Yeah.
 The kids didn't talk about it?
 Are they frightened of storms, the kids?
 That he's okay.
 It sounds like he probably would say it was fine.
 It took [INAUDIBLE]
 I think I only gave you the 25 mg which is the lowest dose.
 Yeah, do you want to try a higher dose?
 Or do you feel that's sufficient.
 Pretty bad.
 The what?
 The bloating, what about the bloating, did you notice a reduction in the bloating this time?
 Why did it come early, does it sometimes do that?
 Several days?
 I wonder if that was the traveling and the stress, associated with traveling.
 Is that when it happened, when you were on the trip or no?
 Before the trip.
 There's no time to calculate when to actually start.
 Yeah and the bloating.
 Yeah, good, definitely we'll try another cycle
 And see and then, other than that, I mean just the exercise
 Are you taking one?
 One pill?
 Uh-huh.
 And the legs don't jump at all at night?
 Yeah.
 You mean the improvement of the symptoms?
 Right.
 Huh.
 Are you less tired now as a result of the Requip, if you sleep better through the night are your legs
 Since stopping the Prozac, has the sleep worsened?
 Okay.  Well, you seem to be better
 You're less afraid.  Well the acne is from the Prozac
 We thought it was but the Prozac is something that takes a long time to come out of your system too.
 Oh yeah, I think the half life is somewhere between 96 hours at a minimum and the breakdown product I think can be up to, you know, a week.
 I would just watch it.  Do you, are you taking any
 No, I mean for the acne.
 Yeah.
 That won't hurt, help your hormone cycle but I think I'd be more inclined to treat it conservatively, temporarily, use like Oxyclean, things like that
 Just topical and if it was from the Prozac then over time it'll improve.  If it's not, if it is hormonal, you might need some medication.
 They could check your estrogen level, it's a little bit tricky because it has to be done in different parts of the cycle, the levels are different, but they could do that, but yeah, if the period is changing in terms of getting shorter because you're a little bit young for that to start happening so they could check it and see.
 But no, the diuretic wouldn't have anything to do with hormone or effect hormones, all that's going to do is decrease the bloating and if the bloating was contributing to the, yeah, to the irritability, it'll reduce that.
 So I'll give you a refill on that.
 And you don't need refills on the other two?
 Or you do?
 So you'll be okay.
 So now just that
 Do you want me to give you like thirty of the diuretic?
 You can use them for several cycles.
 Well, we'll go up to 50 mg.
 We'll up 25 to 50.
 Okay, do the corn boil, thanks for this.
 Sad?
 Who's them?
 Okay.
 How old was [NAME OTHER]?
 Did they have a memorial service?
 Graveside.
 But you were there, that's good.
 How's her daughter doing?
 Okay.
 Yknow, when there's a loss like that I think the expression is you celebrate the life of.
 And the end of life is always.
 Is she from Austria or -
 Oh, okay.
 Okay.
 So he sounds better and?
 Does he feel better?
 Well, in the rehab unit and not in the intensive care unit then that's a good sign.
 That's good. And pneumonia's very treatable too, so.
 In this room with a hundred thousand people?
 Okay.
 Was this after the, uh?
 Yeah.
 So it was disproportionate.
 Okay. But those were all dreams at night while you were sleeping?
 No visions or intrusive thoughts or suicidal or anything during the day?
 Any pattern or anything that triggered it?
 Oh, when your dad was sick, okay. So you were afraid, yknow. This was after the funeral too, your neighbor's funeral.
 So you probably were, you just had that experience with your neighbor and, but it sounds like she was sick for a long time.
 And then your dad got sick. Yknow, he had a different kind of illness that was very treatable.
 How old's your dad now?
 So close in age, okay.
 Well, it makes sense you [INAUDIBLE].
 Good.
 Oh, okay, that's where he worked. Okay. Makes sense.
 He wasn't from Bridesburg?
 And then he had lived up in the farther northeast, right?
 Oh, he still lives in Port Richmond?  Okay.
 I had the impression that he moved further up.
 Okay.
 More of a 9 to 5 job.
 As opposed to that other job that she had?
 Yeah, it was like 24/7 it sounded like.
 [INAUDIBLE] huh?
 Well, I got your little letter too since our last visit.
 Yeah. Sounds like a good e-mail.
 [INAUDIBLE] from the priest.
 Wrong number.
 Well, let's get your [INAUDIBLE] first. I'll just do that and we'll go to the others. Your blood test was good again.
 Normal, 2.6.
 So it's okay. So besides the dreams, hallucinations have been pretty stable? Haven't had any?
 Maybe that's what that dream was about.
 The 1 where you saw me in a crowd, and something like that.
 Great. So his business is doing well.
 So no other trips to Australia planned, huh?
 To California?
 Not the east coast.
 Is that morbid?
 That's a good thing. That takes care of, I mean, makes sure that what your wishes and wants are if anything were to happen are taking care of.
 Okay.
 About your will?
 So you need Restoril prescription?
 So you've been taking 2 a day but you need more than 60 a month or have you had sometimes are you taking 3?
 Okay. So 60 was, I guess the month is being longer.
 Okay.
 So is there renewals on that?
 Okay. If I write it the same way that we've been writing it for 60 a month, that still lasts.
 It's not like you're running out early; it's just that you need a new renewal, right?
 Okay. 
 Didn't we call in the Luvox at some point here in the last month or 2?
 We have your next visit already set too?
 Sure. Didn't we do that already?
 Okay.
 Yeah, the next one, yeah. You remember that.
 Okay. We'll have to make a copy of this 1 but let me give you the scripts, here's the Klonopin and your Restoril. [INAUDIBLE]. You are down for September 18th at 3. It will be October the 16th, the next 1. And we'll go back to 4.
 So for that 1 it'd be November 13th  at 4. 4 weeks after that would be December 11th. So we're going to avoid the holiday completely. It'll be after, so that'll be 4 o'clock too.
 That would be the 8th that would be the 8th of January, around there.
 When are you going to go to?
 You going to go?
 The 13th.
 Oh, January. Oh, you mean, the December 1 is the 11th.
 So it'd be, you'd go around the, it'd be like 3 weeks in there.
 Is that how you usually go?
 Then you've got a few weeks in there to play with.
 The one with the dentist. It's okay. 
 So it's the 18th at 3 o'clock, then the 16th of October at 4, the 13th of November at 4, then the 11th of December at 4.
 Okay. Well, then I guess we just need to get the copy of this. So we'll turn this off and thanks for doing this again.
 Oh. 
 I guess I feel like you're wanting me to reassure you a bit. Either talk about your friends or about how the worry seems as reflective of depressive thinking as anything else. But yeah. [0:05:47]
 Mm-hmm.
 I wonder if some of it also is being excited to go? Or even in here—I don't know. In addition to being nervous, sort of talking about being excited and looking forward to it. And being concerned that that's not okay? Or that you'll be—I don't know—disappointed? Like it's a little dangerous to just be (inaudible)? [0:08:58]
 Mm. Mm-hmm.
 Right. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. 
 Sure.
 Right. Mm-hmm.
 Mm. (pause at 00:14:23] until [00:14:54) Mm. (pause at 00:14:55] until [00:15:17) Are you worried about talking about more positive things in here as well at all? [0:15:21]
 Mm. 
 I see. (pause at 00:16:06] until [00:16:27) So you're more just talking about kind of risks in general whether it's to do with the trip or with speaking up at work? It's kind of a conflict between on one hand wanting to contribute, wanting to be engaged, wanting to know what's going on and on the other hand being ignored, being shot down, being disappointed. [0:16:51]
 Mm-hmm.
 Right. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm.
 Sure. 
 Right. 
 Right. Just so I'm clear. I remember the thing with the work trip. And how they said—if I remember right. You could take vacation time or unpaid time or something like that and go. 
 I remember you getting pretty (inaudible at 00:22:44) about that. Is that what you're doing?
 (inaudible at 00:22:49) trip. 
 That's right. Right. 
 Right.
 Because Chet's away anyway right?
 Right. 
 Uh-huh.
 So is the (inaudible at 00:23:45) thing—I thought it was just like a day. 
 Two days. 
 Right. 
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm. 
 One thing—your tone and your (inaudible at 00:25:13)—you sound upbeat in a way. But the content of what you're saying is not. Am I missing—do you (inaudible at 00:25:21) from that? Am I –
 Okay. I mean just sort of generally (inaudible at 00:25:29). Something about your tone and the way you're talking isn't conveying the crumminess, the worries and the crumminess that the content of what you're saying is conveying to me? I'm just completely misreading your sort of (inaudible at 00:25:57) and tone? But I—I want to ask you about that. [0:26:08]
 Right. I mean I certainly—it's the content of your words. The worries about your friends, feeling crummy, the way you were describing about work, feeling mixed about the trip, feeling worried about—going on the trip and then worried about things to do with being on the trip. (inaudible at 00:26:53) With staying over Saturday night. I mean it's all mixed or worse. (pause at 00:27:00] until [00:27:08) And you feel kind of flat and gray. [0:27:14]
 Yeah. (pause at 00:27:15] until [00:27:27) Mm. I wonder why I'm getting (inaudible at 00:27:29). I guess it's like a mistake on my part? I don't know. (pause at 00:27:36] until [00:27:47) 
 Mm. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Right. 
 Yep. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm. 
 Mm-hmm.
 (inaudible at 00:31:54) 
 Right. (pause at 00:32:08] until [00:32:37) There aren't really many places you can actually go with how you're actually feeling about it. Work in general or the trip in particular. 
 Pretty confident about that too?
 Well today I seem—(inaudible at 00:34:52) idea that there would be something about a more positive interaction that would make nervous. Like (inaudible at 00:35:07) you want it and that makes sense. And at times when you get it it is very reassuring and feels good. Unquestionably. (pause at 00:35:16] until [00:35:28) I guess (inaudible at 00:35:29) you're so much waiting for the shoe to drop. The shoe to drop. [0:35:33]
That—you're worried about seeking reassurance even in places where you're pretty confident you'll find it. (pause at 00:35:49] until [00:35:59) Like it only raising the stakes or only might actually get you to relax a little more and feel a little more like you were safe. Or could expect more of that. Which would then be even more dangerous for the next go round. 
 Right. 
 Letting your guard down kind of thing?
 Yeah. (pause at 00:36:35] until [00:36:44)
 Uh-huh. Right. 
 Mm-hmm.
 Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:37:35] until [00:37:44)
 Mm-hmm. 
 We should finish up for now. 
 (inaudible at 00:38:46) [0:38:55] [end of audio]
 Kinda doesn't, I don't understand what..
 What about it makes sense?
 I see. I see.
 Yeah. So maybe there's the reason for you to not, maybe there's good reason for you to feel you're not doing so well.
 So it feels to you like you're just stagnating.
 Um hmm.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Um hmm.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 Uh huh. It's not that you don't know what to do, it's just like you're not doing it. 0:03:09.8
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 Um hmm.
 But it sounds like you want to leave him before you become displeased with him. 0:04:02.9
 For a vacation.
 Yeah.
 Just so you don't get on his nerves and he doesn't start finding you dull.
 Um hmm.
 It sounds like you're saying like you shouldn't be that..
 Well except that it sounds special for you. Like it's awfully hard to do. Awfully hard to do.
 I'm hearing you say like you know for other people or something it wouldn't be such a big deal. 0:04:55.4
 Right now wasting time? Or wasting time..
 How? Why?
 Let me make sure I do.
 It sounds like you're saying like on the one hand sometimes you're very much into what you're feeling. And then some other times like it just flips for you and you say to yourself, "Hey, I wasn't really feeling that at all. I was kidding myself. I'm just spoiled."
 You know, I guess what you're talking about but not entirely clear.0:08:14.8
 Um hmm.
 What is it?
 I don't know if it's it or not. I, there's something in that thing, you know. But yeah. I guess I don't now. Like you'll be angry. You say that you'll be angry with James and then you'll say no I wasn't really angry I was just feeling sorry for myself? I don't understand.
 Um hmm. But then you say, "Well no, I'm not depressed. I wasn't really depressed." What's the difference? Between you being depressed and feeling sorry for yourself. Maybe that would..
 So it doesn't, ok. So it sounds like it isn't that you call the feelings into question. You don't say, "Well, I wasn't feeling that." It's like is it all right to have felt that or not.
 If you're depressed, like it's all right. But if you're feeling sorry for yourself, that's a bad thing. I guess.
 Well I get the feeling like nobler or something.
 Is selfish.
 XX0:10:39.5
 Well, we started at..
 Don't know. Do you want to stop? I don't know. Let's see. We started about five minutes late I guess. So about five minutes. 0:11:06.8
 Is that what you wanted or?
 Can I see you possibly this Friday instead of Thursday, is that?
 Ok. This has been a bad month for Thursdays.
 Is that really all right?
 Yeah. Well it won't be until you get XX0:12:42.2
 Good bye. Maybe it'll be over by Friday.
 And you thought I just had a penchant for colors?
 This is good therapy for you?
 Well I didn't, I don't understand, what do you mean?
 [I can see that now.] (ph)
 How does it feel?
 What do you mean that it was mostly boring?
 Yeah.
 So that heat really...makes you grabby?
 So it sounds like all you have to do is be put in an air-conditioned room and like you're just a different person?
 Yeah.
 So do you mean it's not like taking yourself too seriously or something or?
 Is it like, I would say and thinking like what was going through was something like, "well to say I'm confused about myself is like taking myself too seriously".
 Some joke, what? I... 
 Stewing (ph).
 Yeah, you had been like sitting here stewing for an hour about how confused you were?
 (snapping fingers) Like that...flick of an eyelash all of the sudden and "I'm not confused at all".
 Yeah.
 M-hmm?
 Right.
 And is it also, part of it, like you took the easy way out?
 Okay and it's like, it sounds like there are two things typically there; the one is the situation again... [audio blip] [0:06:00.6]
 Yeah.
 Yeah, but it's sort of the situation of having some guy kind of start to push himself on you or something... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And that's the one part that's similar and the second part that's similar is like kind of caving in or saying, "Oh, the hell with it."
 "I can't think of anyway out of this so I might as well just give in."
 Well it's like it just made you cringe?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it was like and you didn't, I mean...that also it's like you didn't want to do this?
 Yeah.
 And maybe that's what you're feeling about it, was like you just caved in under pressure.
 [So you think] (ph) and I don't know did that make it, does that make, like make it feel to you like telling me (ph) what you're feeling is sort of anticlimactic, like you work yourself up to this and it's like shooting a peashooter off a Sherman tank?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So it's like you gave an inch and expected to be asked to give up a mile or something because he... [overlapping voices]
 Yeah. [silence from 0:08:34.0 to 0:08:48.6]
 Like you look back and your life is sort of one surrender after another it sounds like or you think of it like that? 0:09:07.5]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, but it's like you couldn't, you couldn't fuck yourself over so many times without having some residue of fury or something... 
 ...there [do you think?] (ph)
 Yeah.
 But it's stupid to make the rules (ph)... [inaudible at 0:10:19.9]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. But it sounds like the horrible part is like a feeling like you don't like yourself or like now that you're doing something that you don't want to do... 
 ...but and it's like winding up like not liking yourself for doing this?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Like it really does matter?
 [inaudible at 0:11:33.4]... 
 Could be some of the case with like dating guys it does matter and the way you were talking about it before sounds like maybe it's sort of about an accrual, each time there's a little, you fancy (ph) that as a little dram (ph) of carbolic acid?
 Yeah, so that's somewhere and I it means something.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. To cover it literally you could accept that it wasn't such a large thing, sort of like a sense of answer (ph) for yourself?
 Yeah.
 Okay. [silence from 0:12:23.9 to 0:13:17.5]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well it could because it sounds like it's a kind of personality theory you've got or it's something like being angry with, being angry out there and somehow winding up instead to be having that anger diffused and just feeling a terrible setup in a sense then? 
 But you do know that you were angry [at or it,] (ph) there's something that you do know even more or something that you give consent?
 Yeah.
 [Well like you said it is.] (ph)
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah...again it's like there are a whole bunch of kind of dynamic explanations that you're toying with and don't have any way of choosing one over the other, but the fact for you, I guess, is that you have, then feel upset?
 Yeah. It sounds like you didn't know reason, just like waking up one morning and then finding yourself depressed?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah?
 What's?
 It sounds like you had a tough time in the last couple of days?
 That's too legitimate?
 Things have been bugging you anyway?
 Sure (ph), things that really shouldn't bother you though?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I was going to say, the way you're telling it to me, you seem sort of embarrassed about yesterday and today, you know?
 You've come close to somebody hearing that crazy display of... [overlapping voices at 0:19:49.2]
 Yeah.
 But it sounds like it made you goddamn angry to walk in and find the place looking like a cyclone had hit it?
 [inaudible at 0:20:06.4]... 
 What's not legitimate, yelling like a banshee to nobody?
 Okay.
 Why?
 And he might, you mean he might feel that, "My God, I've been keeping this place like a pigsty."
 No?
 But if it's all over in my mind and it seems like it's too bad he wasn't in his bedroom?
 If he's the prime pig?
 I could see him saying, "Oh, my God, I finally know what her limits are, I'd better shape up."
 Yeah (ph).
 Yeah, well like it's that old story.
 By the time they come in you've just sort of been keeping it inside of you all this time, saying little bits of... 
 ...but not really the feelings you've been having.
 You're not angry at it anymore because you discharged (ph) falling under a... 
 He laughed at you but it had its effect?
 That makes it sound like you don't have anything to talk about?
 Yeah.
 Similar.
 [Like all messed up?] (ph)
 [Like that...] (ph)
 ...continuous... 
 ...inside and outside, right (ph)?
 And you're feeling like, well I mean sort of having a little trouble talking because I'm wondering if it's like for you that you feel like there is some sort of discontinuity then if we turn this up?
 [I'm just trying to...] (ph) [silence from 0:26:31.7 to 0:26:42.0] But is that what, like with what... 
 Uh-huh!
 Uh-huh.
 M-hmm. For you wondering if there was or just kind of thinking about whether there was?
 [inaudible at 0:27:10.9]... 
 Not good?
 Yeah, and like there should be some basic way in which who you are inside is like who you are outside?
 Yeah. [silence from 0:27:31.9 to 0:27:42.4]
 Yeah. And it's sort of like slinking backwards you're thinking?
 Yeah. It must lead you astray to have to like make your guts slide into this other, those expectations?
 [I mean in this case.] (ph) [silence from 0:28:16.8 to 0:28:44.0]
 Could be.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm, like if you do you mean like something out of politeness or concern, even though you don't want to do it, like that's okay?
 And I guess, I mean you're also saying and besides, other than that class of actions, like you can't think of others where you've done things that you haven't wanted to do?
 Is that what you're saying?
 Ah, right... 
 ...[thinking about that, yeah.] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 Yeah. And like there may be others but it sounds like the one that really sticks out for you is the (ph) sexual?
 M-hmm.
 Good (ph). So (ph)?
 Yeah, but it sounds like you're saying at least this time sort of like that you were, you were restrained inside and there was no confusion inside, [that you knew you that,] (ph) that you knew you didn't want to do it period.
 It wasn't a case of trying to make your inside be in harmony with outside?
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. So that over the last couple of years that was inside you from [the strain that kept you] (ph) confused?
 Apparently you just... 
 Uh-huh, uh-huh, okay, you got that but the fact is that everything seems true about you, to you; you're confused, you're not confused?
 Yeah, everything's been true, you're saying, "well how do I get there, how is that that I'm that way?" Um, I think one possible explanation is that you've had to kind of twist your insides out of shape to go with other peoples' desires, like peoples' expectations, but for the last couple of years that doesn't seem true, like you haven't twisted your insides out of shape, like you've been compliant but you've been straight and known you were doing that for somebody else?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 What tests?
 [The tests when you leave us?] (ph)
 Oh (ph).
 (yawning) Yeah (ph).
 So it sounds like, "Well I don't know, maybe I just blew it."
 Why couldn't you - I'm not sure how to say it - it's something like that, like you're not sure, like you won't (ph) know whether you've, whether you're any different until you look at the tests or something like that, like or until you do them I mean? [0:37:24.9]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah and it's like you'd like some kind of truth (ph), some kind of, um - what the hell do I mean - like a landmark or something, like you'd like to know that, I mean where you were to know if you were any different now?
 Yeah. Well what do you feel?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Say it again?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah and it sort of sounded like that until, you should kind of pay attention to yourself and what you're doing until you know you're doing it all right, so that you don't do it wrong (ph)?
 I know, [I mean, yeah.] (ph)
 Yeah. One thing you're saying is you're a stranger to you now, in many important ways?
 [Someone used to attempt or gladly is part of the furniture?] (ph)
 And that's how you've been with you?
 Yeah. And besides there is so much that sort of feels familiar and why hassle if you know they're stuff (ph)... 
 ...like, "I know she's going to bring me my meals so why should I worry that she's crying now or..." [overlapping voices at 0:41:55.5] 
 Okay (ph). [silence from 0:41:58.4 to 0:42:16.2]
 What that you think you're not going to see people anymore?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 One of you dying (ph)?
 Yeah? [silence from 0:43:08.5 to 0:43:26.2] And it sounds like being helpless before fate or something and like nothing that you're going to do or he's going to do is going to have anything to do with it, it's just going to (snapping fingers), right?
 Crossing the street get run over by a truck.
 You can't stand looking (ph)?
 [Longer than.] (ph)
 Like his dying or your dying would sort of like be a kind of simple ending to the whole thing?
 Yeah (ph)? 
 M-hmm.
 Thought something [with strange forces] (ph) you mean?
 So maybe you were thinking about this one (ph)?
 About his or your dying (ph)?
 You mean like you're not getting back together again, it sounds like it's been very paramount to you?
 Are you sure you've seen the last of him?
 Right. [silence from 0:46:42.0 to 0:47:34.2] So then if you're thinking about, if we were talking before... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm, yeah, like so they're going to have the general thing in this, the thing that...happens with grandparents and your grandmother or with you're mother and stepfather, but it's like something different with your boyfriends like to accept it, uh, and with elaboration you're dwelling on it... 
 ...[I guess] (ph) it's different... 
 ...or that a fact of life or something to do with your destiny [it feels like?] (ph)
 I don't mean to offend... [inaudible at 0:48:47.6] ...do the best we can do with this whole process. [silence from 0:48:52.9 to 0:49:04.8]
 The way you say that to me makes me think like you, I should respond to what a bad girl you are or something, you're saying, "See what I do? See how awful I am?"
 Uh-huh, uh-huh. [0:49:35.3]
 So? I'm convinced of funny kind of things, like I, this doesn't ring with what's happened for me, I'm kind of, certainly haven't been aware of your saying the same things over and over again, yet (ph) you've experienced that though, correct (ph)?
 Yeah, you have but... 
 Oh, well I don't know, like... 
 ...it sounds to me like you did. But that's, I mean the point is, I don't want to argue with you but it's just... [overlapping laughter at 0:50:18.7] ...that you're the one that...like for you, you didn't (ph) and that's an important thing but, it's just funny and it's trite (ph) to me.
 That you experience you so differently.
 Yeah, from my experience with you. Like I think if I had the same kinds of feelings about you that you have about you I'd be down on you too... 
 ...with like how you repeat the same stuff endlessly.
 Yeah.
 [Like became that ground on it?] (ph)
 M-hmm.
 [Afraid to hear?] (ph)
 Right.
 Yeah. Before I tell you, I want to tell you what just hit me, but I could appreciate that what you think inside, it must sound to you like you've drone (ph) on and on and on.
 Yeah?
 Okay. Um, I don't know, like there are a number of things that hit me though and I want to respond to them for you, and one was do you have a sense for how it sort of like very - no, for a sense of how you were kind of, like how could we for, um, ah, (snapping fingers twice) well it's like you might be run-of-the-mill or a garden variety but it's maybe the last word is fatalistic but there's another like take for granted fatalistic... [0:53:01.4]
 ...taking for granted fatalistic... 
 ...that's number one...like that's how you live your life... 
 ...that one day they will. The other part of it is like how different, that there's a different edge with James... 
 ...or was with Drew or whomever and that's like some kind of elaboration that you do inside and kind of examine different facets... 
 ...and...like one fantasy I have, and I guess I'm having right now, I mean like before it was like a sort of going through the funeral or something like that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, so that's what felt different to me.
 Did that ring?
 Yeah.
 [Get it.] (ph)
 Yeah, but it's like you, because you already said it then you think. Yeah, so the point, I guess that explains the difference between your perception of you and my perception of you, because like to me that was weird (ph). [silence from 0:54:05.8 to 0:54:17.4] It must be pretty discouraging for you.
 To not finish and not thinking and everything (ph).
 M-hmm and what's discouraging is you give up each time?
 What did you give up on?
 Yeah.
 Oh, uh, okay.
 M-hmm. [silence from 0:55:17.0 to 0:55:39.9] So that sounds like today is a blank for you except for the very beginning?
 M-hmm.
 It's always happening in the hour it's like you've lost it, you can't remember it. [0:56:01.6]
 Mm. Oh, like what do you mean, always true in life or always choosing?
 Yeah.
 God bless you who?
 It beats the hell out of me.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 So it's in what way?
 M-hmm.
 So it sounds like you can kind of, after you get... [inaudible at 0:57:59.1] ...like maybe what you have is an attic and that you're stuck on the attic floor [when you're up there because the basement's better because the stuff on the attic floor is you think it through and you think it through and it's a trapdoor and the trapdoor is open, then all the sudden it just closes, like you don't want to go down there and deal with it?] (ph)
 Yeah. But the sense I have for you is like just clamming up inside sort of like to yourself.
 Yeah. And the confusion is whether there really is or?
 (snapping fingers) [inaudible at 0:59:38.8]... 
 [inaudible]... 
 You know what it sounds like?
 It sounds like... [inaudible at 0:59:49.3] ...it sounds like having a name on the tip of your tongue and not being able to remember it.
 And then saying something to yourself like, "Well there wasn't any name to begin with so I might as well forget that."
 [You guess?] (ph)
 Yeah and that the underlying thing in that is something like it all comes about because when you can't focus you then say, "well there's nothing really to focus on anyway".
 There isn't any, really anyone (ph) inside?
 The thing you twisted in that, for me anyway, is like there really is something you're really using inside that it really is for it... 
 ..."there really is a name on the tip of my tongue".
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Hurtful (ph)?
 That it's presumptuous of you to feel like there's a center to you?
 Where do you come off or you come off with something inside? When the hell are you going to have these, something more than a grab bag of contradictory impulses, in other words? [silence from 1:02:04.7 to 1:02:26.2]
 Is that because it feels right? I mean like you have intellectual arguments and I stated it a little schematically that... 
 I thought the argument was I was wrong! And you're saying I'm right?
 No.
 No, I was like, I wasn't, no, I wasn't being sarcastic.
 [You know it's...] (ph)
 Ironic, but I wasn't, I wanted to be straight and I was, like that sounded like that edge of it for you, like it really does feel presumptuous?
 [inaudible at 1:03:44.8]... 
 That's all I was saying about it was that there's something about, I mean you really feel like you're riding for a fall to think you have some kind of core (ph)... 
 ...[in all of this stuff you know.] (ph) [silence from 1:03:58.7 to 1:04:13.3] Where are you?
 I must say it's even like a presumptuous kind of waste of time to even talk about, I mean...whether [in not caring mires into an inside] (ph) or a core, whatever that is [unless I'm straight,] (ph) I mean what the hell difference does it make?
 Yeah, like it's a waste of time.
 Yeah.
 [What do you mean?] (ph)
 It seems like when you hit an obstacle your first kind of impulse is to doubt the whole thing, doubt the whole endeavor?
 That's what I mean... 
 ...that, "If it doesn't matter... 
 ...why am I doing this anyway?"
 We should be stopping.
 Yeah (ph).
 [Not telling me?] (ph) Today is the... 
 ...25th.
 [You think today is the 24th?] (ph)
 Have a good vacation.
 Okay (ph).
 Yeah. [inaudible]... 
 Have a good vacation. [silence from 1:07:43.3 to end - 1:07:50.3]
 Today is February 8. This is Carrie's fourth session with Tyler.
UNKNOWN SPEAKER: This is Session 5. This is Session Number 5.
 How do you feel?
 What kind of angry? What's that like to you? Do you want to throw something? Do you want to hit something? What do you want to do? What does it tell you to do? 
 Do it.
 Okay. (Inaudible at 0:01:34.0)
 Yeah.
 By which "added shit" then?
 That I wouldn't call you. I would and I wouldn't. I gave you a mixed message, right? Is that it?
 Well, what your letter said, all right, what your diary said; is that what you're saying now?
 Okay.
 Yes.
 So do I. Okay.
 I dropped it on you.
 So you want to throw something, all right? How about that Kleenex box?
 Carrie give me a break, Carrie. All right. No, seriously.
 Try it. Why not? Get into it. Pick it up. Stand up. 
 Close your... No laughing. Try not to laugh. Now, really try to get into your anger. I'm not going to let you hit me, by the way.
 I'm going to duck. So you're going to have to be really good.
 Okay, then start hitting.
(Banging sounds)
 Try one more. Now try (cross talk) laughing. What makes you think (inaudible at 0:06:00.3). Don't give me any of your shit now. Get into it. Be serious about it.
(Banging sounds)
 Don't follow me now. You're angry at me. What's this smiling shit, all right? 0:06:19.1
 Okay, hold the phone. Okay, I'm now worried. Okay.
 I think I understand your fear, all right? 
 (Inaudible at 0:07:45.2)?
 Okay, two things. I think with operating there, at least concerns with me is, something you do a lot, it's my guess, I'm guessing about it, it has to do with control. It has to do with if someone else has feelings towards you, strong feelings, it puts pressure on you to do something for them, or if you have strong feelings it means you'd have to lose control; i.e., for example, you said I ruined your week. I ruined your week, right? I was molding you, all right? It's control; like I'm controlling you, all right? I mean I'm doing that to you. All right, I'm molding you, I'm ruining your week. I'm doing all these things, all right? Isn't that the issue of control, like you're afraid I'm going to control you? 
 You're afraid I'm going to control you.
 You can't let yourself be influenced by me, because I'm not controlling you. I mean whether I influence you or not is up to you; that is like the trust thing. But let's move and come back to that a little bit. The issue of the thing you said in here; let's do your diary, okay?
 Yeah, like when you feel that way, when you feel controlled, like you're going to be controlled, or when like there are strong feelings that you'll interpret, you interpret, you do, as meaning you have to do something about it - like I had a strong feeling, right, about you. You got frightened, scared. Why? Because, like, you assume that implies you actually could do something, doesn't it? 0:10:33.7 
Okay, let me go on. Yeah, seeming sucked in; that's the control, all right. [Bite me] (ph). You know, you don't have to do what I tell you to do. I'm not going to tell you to do anything. [Bite me] (ph). Really got scared that I was crazy and therapy was making it worse. You're going to have that feeling, going to have that feeling. What do you do? It's me in therapy, or whether there's somebody else, you're going to have that feeling. It all happen faster with me, I think, than most people, because I really turn on the pressure. All right.
 That's how I felt at the moment.
 I wasn't - Actually I should have said that earlier so we had some time to talk about it, all right? 
 Okay, now, what was it about me saying that that made you so (whistling sound)? I mean what did that imply for you? What does it mean to you? 0:12:19.9
 What I say when I say my own feelings is how I feel, okay? When I do [without stage, right] (ph), there's no implications to your behavior. It's like my craziness; I'm sharing with you my craziness. And it may be crazy, it may not be, that's irrelevant, but the point is, all right, those are strong feelings I have, and all you should do is understand those feelings in my terms, right, because they were my feelings. They don't mean you should do anything about them. That's a problem like you have, okay, seems to me; that is, somebody having a strong feeling and you immediately think like it means something that you have to do. True or not true?
 The point is, if we can learn to deal with that in here, if you can learn to deal with that with me, then you can deal with it with other people. Let's say I was a guy you were dating, okay, and I had those strong feelings. You would have the same reaction. True?
 Okay, so let's work on that. Let's work that through. Let's see where that goes.
 Damn right, sure. You always have a right to be angry with me, whether it is reality or not. I mean anger is okay no matter what, okay? That's another thing, like it is okay to be angry, yeah, sure. Now whether you're right, you know, whether - what you're going to do about that... Now the difference here is, like, if we had this scene and I was invested in you to the extent that I had an investment in how you behaved, how you felt, which way you went, or like I might not stick around though, right? Now the difference is now I'm sticking around, okay, and we can explore that. 0:14:50.6
Now if I was dating you, okay, and we had this thing, that would have probably been the end. You would have given me this fight and then you would have flown (whistling sound) out the door, right? And then I would have been pissed off and not known what the hell happened and I wouldn't have called you again, right? Now the difference here is we're stuck with each other for 22 hours, right? And we can work it through maybe,, and that act is what it's all about.
 Well, how do you feel?
 You always have a right to have feelings.
 You're really pissed at me.
 What did you get from me?
 What kind of demands?
 That's your fantasy, all right?
 You were wishing I would call you; that was part of it. True or not true?
 Okay.
 Okay, and I did in fact...
 I was teasing you. 0:16:36.4
 Well, me, I have feelings, too. That's true, of course you would, and of course I would, too; that's the point.
 Yeah, of course. I told you, too.
 The point is we're two people here. You happen to be a patient, all right, and I happen to be a therapist, all right, but that's irrelevant to like in some sense where our feelings are alike. That is, we would have had these feelings if we were out on the street and we approached each other in another (inaudible at 0:17:30.8) and so these are the feelings that you get, like, when you interact with a man.
 Interesting. Why not?
 [I'm crazy] (ph).
 That's right.
 That's right, it's not.
 Yeah, you're not as angry about it now because you're talking about it; good point. That's right. There were two reasons why I said I might call like that. One is that sometimes I do have problems that - the point of this is not so much to solve your problems. I'm not so much interested in solving your problems per se, but I'm interested in teaching you a method whereby you can solve your own problems. I know that method. I can call up any stranger, schlock on the street, like you, I could call you, inexperienced zilch, right? And I'm a nothing, you're a nothing. I could call - even you I could call and work through my problems with, okay? And I almost called you Sunday to ask you to come in an hour early, okay? Ask you to come in an hour early and you would be my therapist, okay? That's what I was going to ask you to do, because I had something, like I really needed somebody. It's a problem that you have, it's a similar thing, and I thought you could really be helpful with me on that.
The only reason I didn't call you is I worked it through, bubbled through it with another relationship, and I worked it through, okay?
Now, there are two reasons I would call you. Not because I need you, winch, and I don't need you to solve my problems, right? 
 But you could help me, and it would help you in learning how to help other people, okay, and that would help you. Communicating empathy you're not long on, and that's basically what it is, but I thought of other ways that I'm going to give you some - because it sounds like it's a very - four or five pages of things to read Wednesday and things to do outside this hour to help you with that, and that's a better way, because I think you might be too threatened with me initially I think now. Too much responsibility on your shoulders, like you said, right? And I think you'd be afraid to fail with me, because you're invested in me. 0:20:38.7
 Well, what's the responsibility about? I mean what kind of responsibility? What's that about? Are you afraid you'd fail with me and I wouldn't like you any more, I'd throw you out because you were...
 All right. I don't believe you.
 (Chuckling)
 Nice try. 
 Doesn't work.
 Okay, now you were thrashing around for an hour, okay? Not untypical for you it was, when you get panicked; how do I get out of the situation? Fight and flight are your two high characteristics. I don't worry about the fight. I don't worry that you hit me in the groin with that thing; I don't worry about that. The fight part I can handle, okay? And that's okay, we get some of that out and find out what that means. The flight I'm worried about. Like you were talking about - don't leave me until those 20 hours is up; stick with me. Now you can determine everything we do in this hour, okay? 0:22:03.1
 But don't run away, okay? Promise? 
 Okay. With you in psychoanalysis you would get to these feelings in about nine months at $35 an hour. You would start to understand that you're... In a crisis, what do you do? What do you do in a crisis?
 But what do you do first?
 Panic, fight, or you flight. True or not true?
 Okay, what I want to get you to do, I want to get you to shift modes and give you other ways of dealing with that. There are other ways. I want to get you to do more sharing; that's what therapy is in a way. Stay with me and share those feelings with me. When you're in a crisis, share it with someone, like me or someone else. Right now, it's me, okay? And the other is like work, work, like work with it, okay? And that's not going to be easy. Like we're condensing four years into 20 sessions, okay; it's not going to be easy. That's another reason I gave you my phone number; in case you get too panicky, you can always call me. Oy (ph), responsibility, as if you've got enough troubles, right? You've got to come to me; I was born to soothe you, all right? 
 I never promised you a rose garden.
(Chuckling)
 Stay in it. You'll be fine now. All right, we can go as fast or as far as you want to in this.
 Okay, yeah. You see what I mean? Okay. (Inaudible at 0:24:33.7). Yeah. You know, one thing you don't have to worry about: I'm not going to go to bed with you. You can't seduce me, by the way. You can get my feelings, strong feelings about that, but you can't get me to do it. In a hundred years could you do it.
 Because it would be too dangerous.
 It would be very dangerous for me, oh, wow.
 Oh yeah. For you it would be good. For you it would be good, I think. Of course, that's my own live ego, right?
 But I still think that's true. I still think that's true. And it is a possible solution. I mean...
 One-third of all psychotherapists in Nevada go to bed with their clients, or at least one client in that group, one-third.
 Okay. I don't think so. Frankly, I think it works. I'm not brave enough, though. I'm not brave enough for that. That's one I'm not willing to do, because I could be killed professionally in the Midwest. In Nevada, I might do it, but here I lose my license, something like that.
 I think it's helpful to the patient.
 Fine (ph).
 Well, what's it called, that magical client stuff you're talking about?
 What are you paying? Bullshit. What are you paying? You could drop that tomorrow and it wouldn't make any more or any less money. In fact, I would make more money if you dropped that tomorrow, so that's bullshit.
 Well, what's that to me? I don't get paid by them anyhow.
 What I'm saying is that if I did that I would not - there would be no - I would get no gain out of that except experiencing something with you. And I wouldn't be able to go to bed with you because of - clearly because whether or not she really - if she really knows that thing (ph) and she has been everywhere. She's had all this - you know, like that wouldn't be it. It would be because I was as long attracted to you, and I am, and two, because I like you, and three...
 ...like it could be a good outcome for both of us. The only way that would not be a good outcome, in my opinion, is that if either one of us was unwilling to talk about whatever came up, because it would be hard in some way. It could get very intense and you could get real crazy. I mean you could do your fight/flight, right?
 And if you got into - the fight we'd be okay, but be honest, the only thing that would be dangerous is if you did your flight; that's a risky part. That's risky. I mean because you could start distorting like crazy. We all distort, right? You could have me arrested and all kinds of things like that.
 Yeah, sure. And I don't know about your flight yet. I mean if you just go out and pull a flight on me, I'd be very vulnerable, very vulnerable. Forget about if you were - even if you were my client. If you're just a graduate student I could get into trouble. So you couldn't talk me into it here; I don't have that high a trust. And secondly - and the second issue is I'm in love with another woman and that would not - you know, like she would...
 Ah, but there are two things. Even if I wasn't in love with her I wouldn't do it.
 But that doesn't mean - you see, okay - use me as a model for a moment, okay?
 If it's possible. What I'm saying is I have strong feelings like you do. That doesn't imply that I have to...
 ...I have to. I don't feel pressured by you, because I know we have these mutual feelings, okay? One of the reasons I bring it up early is because it happened early, and second reason is that I think we'd be dancing around, well, much longer, unless we shared how we feel about each other, okay? I think that's true in any relationship.
 So what - but...
 You were.
 I'm beyond being instrumental. I'm being I know. I know how you said it?
 I don't read books (inaudible at 0:30:00.1)
 Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. I think it should be verbalized though.
 Oh, sure. You're afraid of the student (ph) and (inaudible at 0:30:22.0).
 I mean a good girl is not sexually attracted to him, to a man, and if she is and she admits that she is, then oh, my God, it's a mortal sin, right?
 So, you know, why are you so pissed at me? And that I had feelings in you, but you would say but part of those happen to be about each other.
 What's my demand? What are the demands...
 You go, "Ahhh..." Yeah.
 And like the feelings you have are so strong that it's hard to share those with anybody, because anybody you share them with would think you're crazy, all right? Is that how you feel about it?
 What step? Oh.
 Yeah. Say that another way; I didn't quite understand that.
 Okay, no, let's forget about that. 0:32:10.8
 Right, exactly.
 The point is now what we have to do is understand who you are, and then also understand how you act in a crisis or how you, so far, as far as I can tell... I'm going to give you something to take home, by the way, unless there is someone else around who can do it? I don't want to hear (inaudible at 0:32:41.1) But okay, maybe I'll have to (inaudible). I want to check it out. That's my initial guess, like the fight/flight. In a crisis, what do you do? Fight/flight, I guess, that's my guess. Okay, and that's not working for you too well; true or not true? Okay, I want to see how strong that is. I'm going to give you a little test to take home that you can administer to yourself. Is that okay?
 Okay. Bring it in next time and I'll score it and we'll both look at it and see what it means. Fight and flight is okay, we don't want to get rid of all of that, and there are some times that flight is good and sometimes that fight is good. Fight with me is always good, by the way, so you have to pick your person, and fight with some people, just scare them and they'll leave, right? Or flight with some people is not good because they won't know or understand. Like a lot of guys won't understand why what they (inaudible at 0:33:37.1). So you'd have to pick and choose. And sharing you have to pick and choose, too, like some people can't handle feelings like (inaudible at 0:33:50.2) your parents can't (inaudible) that is. Flight maybe is better for them.
So in other words, there are like five typical ways people interact with somebody, work with them, pair with them, sharing things, become dependent. And you're afraid to become dependent; you're probably low dependency, and fight and flight. I want to just try to teach you ways to do more pairing and sharing, or more pairing and work. 0:34:30.0
 Okay. How do you feel?
 I'm really glad to see you feel that way.
 That's okay. Then I'd trust your feelings. (Inaudible at 0:35:20.1) you're not ready for that then. (Inaudible) It would all come out there, and (inaudible at 0:35:31.3). Oh, it's in a group, yeah, and it's in a group too, holy cow.
 That may not be the first thing for you to do. That might be fairly advanced. In a way, it's not advanced like, you know...
 Oh, I want to find for you a light T group. Not a light T group, but a T group. Maybe you'll have to switch into one of my T groups if you want, if I ever get one together. I'm afraid you do have a very garden variety problem, by the way.
 Garden variety problem.
 A garden variety. Clearly one, umm, out of dimension. It is my opinion that at least 24 percent of the women in this country have your, quote, problem, worse than you do. 0:36:24.9
 Yeah, it is. Well, it is in some things.
 I think it's delightful, by the way. I'm constantly delighted by you.
 That really makes you mad, right?
 Yeah.
 Well, why should I be different?
 I like that. I like the bitch part. You've been sitting on the bitch part too long.
 Yeah, that's the fight stuff, and that's the way you deal with your anxiety now is fight.
 Guilty. Oh, you made an ass out of yourself.
 I think I was right about something about you. Getting at your feelings is not so much a problem with you, it's like knowing how to deal with them in a more constructive way that, oops, we're (ph) the brothers. Fortunately that's easy, by the way. I brought some stuff home today for you, to get you into some other things. I mean I'll Xerox them today and give them to you later. I have a very good feeling about your therapy, by the way. 0:38:18.5
 Yeah.
 That's right.
 That's right, that's right, that's right. 
 I'm glad you did, by the way. I mean it's really, really very good, you know, (inaudible at 0:39:12.2) .
 And I want you to criticize me, by the way, because I made a mistake last year once.
 I do make mistakes.
 Actually I make a lot of mistakes, make a lot of, lot of mistakes, but I'm alluding to a process (inaudible at 0:39:54.6). That's why I'm where I am now. So I'm willing to take a chance and make mistakes.
 No. Well, see, anytime you make a mistake as two people, we can talk about it, they can work that through and find out what they mean, so I don't know. In some sense, an issue was a mistake, because I ruined your weekend. I ruined your weekend. I ruined your weekend. 0:40:20.3
 Yeah, no, I'm sorry, I don't have any guilt. I have no guilt.
 But there are a few things I have some guilt about that I'm getting into but it's very racy (ph) stuff and it doesn't - I feel very, well, good about that. I'm happy dealing with that.
 No. I feel pressure by myself sometimes to do some things. I don't do anything I don't want to do. 
 But you're in a different position though; you have people who are controlling you, or are really controlling you.
 I'm not one of those people, sorry, and I'm not in a position where other people can control me. See, part of your problem is a real one; that is, there are people who are trying to control you. It's called University of Chicago, et al., and that's - but you opted into that, so you know...
 You don't smoke.
 You do smoke.
 In your own mind you do.
 Yeah. Most of the girls I've seen in college prep  program was in - education program, that's fine (ph). Those kind of things [you find] (ph). I'll be curious to find out what kind of reactions you had on grass. I mean there are some things I know you don't do. I know you don't shoot things in your arm. I know you don't do acid.
 I know you don't do speed. You might take tranquilizers.
 Okay. I'll bet you haven't had any hash, a guess.
 (inaudible at 0:43:23.2) Okay. 
 Well, before this, the process that a little bit - like you were insulted that I thought of you as so na�ve and...
 I'm sorry I said that, because that's not straight. That's tongue-in-cheek. That's black (ph) therapy, by the way. That's not good; I'm sorry I did that. I don't mean anything like that. I mean the woman I love is a hysterical woman and I like that. I mean that's using you it as derogatively, okay? I don't mean it that way, and I shouldn't say it because it has a common meaning of being derogatively. I don't mean that way at all. I'm sorry. I lost my head. I made a mistake.
 (Chuckling) Okay, where were you when I interrupted you?
 Okay, well, I - what were you going to say about it?
 Well, I mean everybody does that to you. 0:44:36.4
 Yeah.
 That's right, and you should have. I was dumb. I did a dumb thing, true. Three.
 In some defense of my dumb thing, so I mean really defensive (inaudible at 0:45:19.7). That had not to do with you as a person, that wasn't probable, because it had to do with a statistical correlation between Sasha (ph), the first year student who is smoking. Now, evidently that statistic has changed. See, smoking is a cultural event; it spreads. Like it's spreading...
 Yeah. It's like all changing now. I haven't been - I'm not into parties for a long time, so I don't know. I mean I have all serious type of events, but the Sasha (inaudible at 0:45:50.8) that I have - I've been carrying around. Obviously I have to change it.
 Really angry (inaudible at 0:46:00.9)
 Yeah?
 Of course.
 Not bad. Not bad (inaudible at 0:46:15.0)
 Enough, enough.
 Okay, so I have prejudices, of course.
 No.
 No correlation. Ah, just one correlation. I'm (inaudible at 0:46:58.2). I mean (inaudible).
 What were you saying? 
 What kind of situation was this? In class?
 Inadequate.
 Yeah.
 Hire someone? Oh, I see. (inaudible at 0:49:11.0)
 They were grouping (ph) too.
 More like they were grouping.
 You have to get - can we go eat, babe (ph)? 
 You have to get into a group. (Inaudible at 0:49:55.5). 
 Not a gestalt group. Gestalt group is not where you're at. First of all, gestalt group is not a group. It is two people interacting with an audience. Two people interacting with an audience is not a group. True or not true?
 You've got to get into a group. As a matter of fact, I would be willing to do a group free if you - like if you get like - and organize it and get like 11 other people together. I'll do a one-day group free.
 If you had the balls for it, so to speak. 0:50:29.9
 (Inaudible at 0:50:32.7). Yeah, it would be a T group. I tell you what? I have a motive. One would be to help you, but two, I have some new stuff I want to try out, that I haven't done before, and it's light. When I usually do a T group I do in and, wham, and I do a very powerful T group, I can do very powerful therapy. I mean you don't sit there and I've got it easy, okay? But I want to try another method which is very light which builds into heavier stuff so you don't even know it. Like it happens - like you've had to work out problems you didn't even know - like there was very little trauma to it, and I have a whole series of things I want to try that work into (inaudible at 0:51:17.5) group, unless you'd be willing to organize that.
 Twelve.
 That would be optimal. I'd be willing to do it for free.
 What?
 Of course you are; that's the problem in your class. See, if you were - the thing is, if I never went to bed with - if I was a virgin, all right - hard to imagine - but if I was a virgin (chuckling) - okay, if I was a virgin and I went into that class I could handle it without any trouble.
 You did.
 I would feel good inwardly, too.
 I have a similar problem when I do groups with heads. I've never done any acid. And you know, it's the same kind of phenomena; they can do things I can't because of that, and I still feel tripped and I'm relatively comfortable with that, and they accept me as a leader even though I haven't done that. And it sounds like there's a parallel there, okay? Do you get the parallel? 0:52:45.1
 But it doesn't seem the same. It doesn't feel the same.
 It's class distinction. Okay...
 Class distinction, yes, it is. 
 It reminds you of you.
 Yeah. They're not at dumb as they make people believe.
 They do the na�ve thing. Don't you?
 I have a thing about you that's all - I see you - let me do a big interpretation and see if it fits, okay? I lost this hour. Okay?
 I have a sense that you may be trying to undo all of that anger you have for me, like making up to me. Are you making up to me? Are you being a good girl for me now?
 Okay, that's (inaudible at 0:54:44.9) delightful, all right? I don't know if you want to be delightful or....
 It is delightful. (Inaudible at 0:54:58.8) it does invoke those intense feelings with me, warm. It's intense, it makes me feel at ease and attracted to you; that's what it does in me. I'm telling you this, because I just thought those (inaudible at 0:55:07.6). Because you can be angry with me, you know. You don't have - that was good, the anger; I like that. I like the anger. And you can be delightful with me if you want; that's okay too, or not, but you should know what you're doing, right? Though she feels like she blew it, right?
 You have to be how you are with me; that's important. And I can recognize what that's about. First of all, you've got to be, and then you've got to look at what it was, right? I frankly hope you never loose that flirtatious, delightful quality. Now, but the problem is not losing that at all, the problem is developing some other way so you have these choices, all right? If I thought you would lose that in here, I wouldn't want to talk to you, because I like that too much. I hate warm stuff.
 We've got about - less than five minutes and I don't want you walking out of here up the wall. I figure you have a rest from hanging on the wall. So is there something that is still hanging for you? In other words, it seems to me it's all right to go like - you know, it felt all right to me that I got that letter and that you had went through turmoil when you weren't with me. That felt all right, because you don't have to do it all the time, either. So maybe you should have a rest. But can we resolve anything that is... The point is, are you going to go out...
 Okay. 
 Okay, let's... Do you eat right? Let's do some other things. Now do you eat right?
 Eat right. 
 Yeah. You look like you do. You look like a pretty sturdy type.
 Yeah.
 Okay, what do you eat?
 Yeah. You want to put on weight, eh?
 Yeah, why? Stand up and take a look at you. Why are you losing weight? What is it? 0:58:19.5
 As she's sucking in her gut.
(Chuckling)
 That's an old wives' tale, though.
 Depends. What kind? 
 Depends upon which kinds. Like the standard, what is it? What is the standard multivitamin?
 Yeah, they're not supposed to be very good. I don't see why not. I'm doing a health thing these days.
 Right.
 These are very good, by the way. As far as I know, I'm not an expert, but I'm taking these daily, one apiece daily.
 Vitamin E you're - supposed to retard aging. My friends tell me, even if they have a sore and they break open one of those capsules and they rub it on it, it heals in no time at all, for example.
 Yeah. I'm not an expert on this, right?
 I'm not telling you this as a professional now, I'm just telling you this as a friend, okay?
 I only eat once a day.
 That's another reason. 6:00 o'clock though.
 Why isn't that good?
 Oh, but I work until 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning.
 It's shifting now. I'm getting into more vegetables.
 And a lot of water. Is that the diet you're on? 1:00:07.4
 Yeah.
 No, I've been just eating things that I feel like eating that seem good.
 See, I don't see you as a freak for not fucking around all the time, because I think that it is okay, it feels okay to me. It won't feel okay forever, because I see you as coming - it is okay. It just feels okay to me somehow.
 Yeah.
 By the way, you're probably going to have a lot of bad relationships after, before you have a good one, so you might as well - any time you want to start having your bad ones, you might as well do it.
 Yeah. Short term, intense.
 Now, I don't mean bad. Like for some of them you can't expect it to like - you've got to get out of your Cinderella syndrome, okay?
 The knight in shining armor. Like some people are going to be good for you for a while. Like you'll probably sleep with a bunch of guys before... And that's not necessarily true. Like the next guy might be it, but it may not, you know, but that doesn't mean it will be bad. There are no advantages, as far as I can tell, for getting married as a virgin.
 Well, there are some old myths about that. And with the right guy it could be - you could make it into an advantage, but it really isn't.
 Okay, now look, you're taking up all my time here and (inaudible at 1:02:39.4) 
 Get out of here. Okay, what we're figuring to do is give you the appointment slips, and we're going to do it again, we're going to forget again but for... 
 I don't like to run out of batteries. 
 Right. Greeting people. 
 I'm not arguing that it is depression, but I think when people who are depressed sleep more, they don't necessarily find it a respite or...
 Or have pleasant dreams or things like that.
 Right, right.
 Yeah, but it doesn't feel that way. 
[02:35]
 Physically exhausted.
 Yeah, again, I mean feeling really worn out can be a symptom of depression aside from wanting to sleep to kind of get away from things.
 But you've got lots of other health stuff, so I...
 Yeah. I guess if I were going to speculate, I do imagine there is a depressive aspect that contributes. 
[03:32]
 The reasons I think so are these. You tell me you've been lower in the last few weeks.
 Yeah.
 Especially on Tuesday nights right.
 Also, I think you may have been on your version of an angry rant for part of yesterday here.
 Which is not a jump around and throw things sort of affair.
 But you were frustrated.
 Something in your life, like, cannot be about you and what you'd want, including lots of stuff with Dave.
 And your health. And you sounded pretty frustrated about that. And sometimes—I guess I would say frustrated and also there can be a kind of a muted quality when you're frustrated like that. I mean you tend so much not to want to put things on other people. 
 Oh. It might not be that.
[05:47]
 Yeah.
 So, I guess...so those things; so in order to process the anger...maybe a little bit of the mutedness of it can sometimes be linked to being sleepy. 
 Or feeling exhausted. But, you know, it can be...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
[07:30]
 That like stays with you?
[08:57]
 More so than most people?
 In other words, operate better on less sleep. 
 What were you doing?
 Yeah, like qualifying exam before you start a new project?
 And what field is this?
 Okay.
 Great.
[12:09]
 Yeah, passivity is not your thing.
 Writing too much.
 Yeah.
[18:48]
At the time of I'm feeling great. I'm like you know what, I'm still useful. I can do this and then like once the whole thing gets...once the inflammation starts that's when I start hating myself. I'm like why in the world did I really want to do this in the first place? Well, I was trying to make myself feel better, but you know, because I mean yes it would be nice to be able to, you know, whatever. But it's...I like doing things with my hands. I really do. I like building things. I like taking things apart. I don't do as much; I don't do very much at all with it at my job. I do a little bit, but not that much. But the few times that I do a year, like maybe a dozen or so times a year I do it myself, that's where I notice that things; that things are not what they could be. 
And I still may do certain things. Like I can no longer do ceiling fans. Not that that's a big deal, but every time I move in to a place I always end up putting a ceiling fan in. I cannot hold up...it's already hard enough. You have to hold up a fan while you're reconnecting things; that kind of stuff. I can't do that. I've trained my husband how to do it. And for the most part, he's pretty good. 
I have a sense of accomplishment in that I've taken somebody who knew exactly zero about wiring anything and now as long as I give him some reminders—because he doesn't do it all the time and he doesn't actually like have the background knowledge to understand why like neutral and ground are not the same thing, you know, that kind of stuff—yeah, a refresher. But he's pretty good at that kind of stuff. So I don't really need to be doing that kind of stuff. I used to really get a big kick out of that kind of stuff. I loved, loved doing home automation. I cannot do it anymore. I cannot build things with small parts. And that's sort of something that makes me very sad, you know. 
[20:46]
I've looked into a lot of assistive things, but you know what; honestly, there will never be the kind of assistive technology to so much of this kind of stuff is really; it has to be sensory based. I cannot; like, you know—knowing if something is on the right. Like if the pulley is on the right track, you feel it by the way you're pulling it. You can tell whether that's running smoothly or not. I cannot, actually, first of all, teach somebody so well but also not so much, you know; yeah, if at some point I could do robotics or something like that, I don't think—I think I need the feedback loop for. So so much of it is slightly intangible and I really miss it, you know.
It's slightly destructive that occasionally I'll do something. But I really feel like the sense of accomplishment I have of, yeah, I didn't have to buy a new air conditioner. I just took it apart and got the compressor to go, to short up and now I don't need that. That really makes me feel really good, you know. Especially because before I started, I knew nothing about like air conditioners, you know, or something like that. So it's kind of a...it's no longer permanent damage that I'm doing—which I think is good. 
[22:26]
Before, you know, doing this kind of stuff I had to be very careful because I knew that like as soon as like if I basically snapped a tendon that—and when I did, I did do it, but it wasn't for a reuse. Once the tendon was ruptured, that I'd have an arm that sort of hung there. So yeah. But now that I have a new tendon that is not mine, it is, you know, I don't have to worry about that so much. 
 I would think it's devastating.
 Oh really?
 Mechanics and...
 I haven't seen them. 
 You can still do what?
 Oh, yeah.
 Nobody's going to stop you on the street and ask you to integrate by parts?
 Yeah.
 I would imagine if you go to the right neighborhood.
[31:38] 
 So much of this is about things you miss and about...
 The way that you still can feel organized and sort of strategic and...
 Smart? Being smart. 
 Sure, sure.
Yeah, yeah, it's even more so with my brain. So. And it was actually heightened by that because not only did my husband, but I had made friends who used to joke around about me being a trophy wife in a different way. You know, being the person who like, look at who I married. She can bake and she can build things. And check out what she can...you know what I mean? That was a different type of trophy wife. It was sort of...I'm still super proud of that, you know.
 Yes.
 Is that right?
 No.
 Oh okay. 
[36:04]
 [inaudible 37:19] and effective and engaged with the world.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Because then you think things are getting better?
 Right. 
 Yeah. It's not really how you feel, or it's not...
 I see.
 Like entitled? 
 Well you always feel like you should be able to deal with it or put up with it or find a positive aspect to it, or things like that. 
 We have to stop anyway. Okay, great. Perfect.
 Right.
 Yeah. 
 Hi.
 Sure.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Sure, sure, and I'm happy. If you ever want more feedback I can certainly give it to you.
 But what I typically do, especially as we're getting to know each other is [overlapping voices]
 ... really, yeah, hopefully do a little bit more than that,
 ... but mostly listen and just try to sort of frame what you're saying in a particular way.
 I mean that's because what I try to be doing [overlapping voices]
 ... from the start, [overlapping voices]
 ... but if you need more of that that's great.
 But you know I feel like, especially with you and what you're coming with for right now, [overlapping voices]
 ... is that it sounds like, first of all, you said I think at the second session that actually just expressing what's going on inside of you was very helpful. [00:01:01]
 Not to say that's all of what we do [overlapping voices]
 ... but sort of I was taking your lead on that.
 And, yeah, and mostly I like to, you know I talk when I feel like I have something important to say.
 So right now I'm sort of taking a lot in.
 But if there are particular things that you want more feedback about [overlapping voices]
 ... you can feel free to let me know that.
 Yeah.
 M-hmm.
 What were your thoughts about asking for a lot of [overlapping voices] [00:02:01]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 How do you mean? Taking things personally how?
 Hmm, well give it a try and let's see if we could go with that a little bit, [overlapping voices]
 ... because I think that that might be important. [00:04:56]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm.
 Mm, m-hmm.
 The recommendation or comment I made, and I think it was the first or second session here, [overlapping voices]
 ... it sounds like it really stuck with you.
 Hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm, m-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well it seemed like my recommendation about coming twice a week was related in your mind to something being really wrong with you.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 I was, that was my next question, whether it was sort of surprising, because it wasn't part of your experience verses something that you felt, too, but someone outside confirming [overlapping voices]
 ... it felt?
 Maybe that's a little too much feedback I was giving you?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm, m-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well I think, in part, it's very much the product of you know really having lived in a very traumatic environment. I mean that's what people in trauma do. You need to be so sensitized to your environment all the time, your antenna needs to be up all the time.
 And so I very much think that that, at least in part, is a product of your experiences. [00:11:57]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Okay. You felt like that you had to manage his anxiety? [00:15:57]
 M-hmm.
 Why do you say that?
 Hmm.
 Well you're not only talking about your kids but you're talking about yourself and feeling that there's not only something really wrong with you but somehow hardwired and incurable.
 Yeah.
 I mean you're terrified of replicating your experience and somewhat convinced that you could.
 And what would you be doing as a terrible wife or terrible parent?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, mm.
 M-hmm.
 But you're afraid?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 And do you feel like if you didn't monitor yourself that you would be like that?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 No.
 Well it seems like in your wanting to take it back it's something like by putting it out there you've done something wrong [overlapping voices]
 ... that you need to then undo.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 You looked really sad when you were talking about your brother.
 [I know] (ph).
 It's almost like your brother is what you fear becoming. [00:31:54]
 M-hmm.
 Mm.
 M-hmm, mm.
 And you're worried there's nothing that you can do to stop it. [00:32:58]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well that's how you started out by talking about [inaudible]. It sounded like part of the feedback was for going down the right path with (ph) the wrong path.
 Do you think there is something that makes you anxious about feeling like you're not getting feedback?
 Mm.
 M-hmm.
 This is the right way keeps you sane? [00:35:52]
 Well everybody, at some point, needs people to tell them that what they're doing is okay, and you never got that. [00:36:53]
 M-hmm. [00:37:56]
 M-hmm.
 Well it sounds like a standard or maybe the main standard that you assess your actions as whether this will help you not be crazy or facilitate being crazy. [00:39:01]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Why?
 What does it feel like, the tension?
 Mm, fidgety?
 Mm. [00:39:59]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Mm. You were at your grandmother's house?
 Hmm.
 Did it look like it did then or it does now?
 M-hmm.
 Mm.
 What did you make of that?
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm, mm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Yeah, but even that, I'm not sure how much that would solve for you internally because you're so worried that he's in you. [00:43:04]
 Yes, [overlapping voices]
 ... you do.
 Because it doesn't ultimately address this sort of very deep, deep-seated fear. It sort of allays your anxiety at moments maybe but that's about it.
 It's not, I don't think, about proof. I think it's about us really, really getting very deep into these fears and really looking at them very, very deeply.
 I know it does. I would imagine it sounds really scary. [00:44:02]
 M-hmm.
 M-hmm.
 Well that you'd be so, so fragile?
 M-hmm.
 And that in itself is a fear.
 M-hmm. You know maybe we're going to need just to stop for today.
 So next Wednesday I'm not here but I'd be happy to find another time to meet. Would you like to try to do that?
 Okay. Do you know is your schedule a regular work schedule next week? [00:45:01]
 Oh!
 But that's it, so I'll certainly – let me take a look. I should have something later.
 And [overlapping voices]
 All right, right, right. Well [overlapping voices]
 Or the week of the 26th?
 Let's see. I could do something at – well on Friday afternoon I have a 3:00 timeframe, would that work?
 Friday
 Yeah.
 Okay, great. There you go.
 Okay. And I could – do you want me to give you a statement for the – well for next week I give you a statement for the month. I don't remember what [inaudible] I can give you if you want.
 Okay.
 Wait (ph), does that mean you have the insurance though?
 He saved you?
 Okay. Well if you could – I don't remember [inaudible at 0:46:39] if you could pay me for the last statement and then I'll figure out what it was from there, would that be okay?
 Three nights. Yeah, that will be great.
 I think it was just for a couple of sessions and then, yeah, that will be great.
 Okay. We'll figure out the insurance stuff.
 Okay, take care.
 Thank you, you too. [00:47:06]
 So has camp started?
 Oh my God.  It's getting hot now.
 Are you feeling more down?
 Anybody to help you?  Nobody?
 Yeah, which takes a lot of time.
 It's never been fixed?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's hard, I don't, I try not to keep all the stuff because it just piles up like you say.
 I know, you've gone over your whole life is the trouble. 
 They could go.
 I had to throw out a whole bunch of [DEIDENTIFIED] at one point, I mean, you know, piles of them.  I hated to do it but you've got to survive.
 Huh.
 That's true.
 Yeah, I mean -
 What do they know, outer space and yknow.
 Maybe they got a library in [DEIDENTIFIED]. 
 Well, is there a time schedule?  
 I mean you don't have to have it done by a certain day -
 Well, you've only got so much time a week, yknow, when you're not working so I mean be easy on yourself.  You've probably only got an hour and a half a day at the most, it sounds like.
 You're going to get to a couple of points where you go, okay that goes, I don't care.
 That's what happened when I moved, yknow, out of the house, twenty years of stuff.
 Yeah, I might save a couple but -
 How much can you save.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  Enjoy the memory.
 Well, are you taking the Paxil now or did we stop it?
 We should probably put it back, yeah.
 Well, 'cause I don't want you to get down where you were.
 No, let's put it back.
 So 25 CR, you've got the pills?
 No, Okay.  
 Things are changing though, I mean even though you're in the same place, the place is changing. 
 And I think that's enough to do it, my gosh.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, somebody ought to release that.  I mean, you're right, yknow, it's the second story you've told me like that.
 In the fridge you mean?
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Might as well move over there.
 Yeah.
 Do you have regular meetings of the guys that live there or anything?
 But it makes sense to me that they ought to be having some kind of regular meeting because there is so much change, just to keep up with it, yknow.
 Well, you don't know, I mean you still may have ideas that make things better.
 Well when I go to those meetings, I just figure I'm going to say what I think.   I mean I'm not going to cause trouble but they can take it or leave it.
 Well, what's true is true.
 Yeah, so space available didn't save anything there boy.
 Oh, they're all [DEIDENTIFIED]?
 Yeah, it is changing, man, that's for sure.
 Yeah.  I think it's in transition that it will settle down into what it's going to be but it's not there yet, so you are in a place that's in transition.  Transition could take a couple of years.
 Amateurs.
 Besides we discussed that kind of kid, you just don't fit that, like I don't fit going in and working in a cancer ward, you don't fit that kind of patients either.
 It's all they expect.
 That's better.
 I know those kids are difficult so it's not the same.
 It takes a special person to do that, I'll tell you.
 They're still pretty weird, they don't relate the same.
 Well, you better take the Paxil so you can feel better.
 This is the 25, I'm only giving you thirty days worth because we may raise it or change the dose or something.
 So get, just get that this time.
 Say four to fourteen days, yeah.
 Why don't you come back in about three weeks, we should know how it's doing.
 Yeah.
 How old is he?
 They need somebody to train them.
 You got to get them and make them build a couple so they know what the hell it is.
 All right, you're going to make it.  The place is just all loose.
 [PATIENT NAME] is a 27 year old Caucasian female who was self referred for evaluation of current depression, anxiety, insomnia, non responsive to antidepressants.  She has had a history of this since the early part of her life, since starting her menses.  Um, let's see, what else. She has a benign history without any medical problems.  She has no allergies.  There's no alcohol, tobacco, or caffeine abuse.  She does have certain things that go along with an affective disorder such as restless legs, Raynaud's phenomenon, nail biting, and temperature regulation problems.  Um, today it is a, um, cool but not cold day and she is sitting in front of me with 2 sweatshirts on.  Her legs are not moving as they were, although she does move them from time to time.  Her pupils are still enlarged slightly.  Her eyes still track quickly and her hands are cold.  Um, she is now on Alprazolam 2mg, #30, 1 at bedtime; Wellbutrin 100mg SR, #30, 1 in the morning; and Lamictal 150mg a day.  So how are we doing?
 Are you?  Tell me what good is?  I see that you're still cold, does that happen all the time.
 So it's - 
 Right, okay.  Is your mind still racing?
 You're mind is not racing.
 All right, um.  So how would you describe how you are right now?
 What is that?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 What time to what time?
 P.M. to A.M.?
 Okay.
 Wow.  Where, where do you work?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 I can imagine.  You're doing that how many days a week, 5?
 Okay.  What do they do there?
 All right, all right, so you've got jet lag, it's probably now when you're beginning to adjust to it.  
 Wow.
 I can imagine.
 Are they going to shift, shift you back later on you think?
 Yeah, okay.  I'm going to bump you up to 200 of Lamictal, okay, um, and see if we can get rid of the temperature sensitivity and also, um, you're a little tense.  Okay, you're sitting forward a little bit, a little tight, you know, and your pupils are still a tad enlarged and this may be too much but if it is, you can do, um, 3/4 of a tablet, a 200mg tablet, it'll be the same dosage, okay, but I think if we go to 100 twice a day then I think we'll get things better, okay.  Is that copacetic?  
 It's supposed to have an antidepressant effect, is it doing it?
 You still feel depressed?
 All right.
 Poops out.
 Okay, yeah, I can increase your dose if you want me to and maybe when everything smooths out for you, you know, and your temperature gets back to normal and everything else does, then your mood may pop up, that's what I'm expecting, okay, but I can increase your Wellbutrin to 300 and see if that helps and it should help a little bit with your, um, jet lag.
 Yeah.
 All right
 You're running around with sleep deprivation is what you're doing and if you don't have sleep deprivation and phase inversion of what you're doing, um, that's going to be a problem.  You know what I might do is to, um, not do the Wellbutrin and give you some Provigil.  Provigil is an alerting mechanism that you can take during the daytime that can keep you awake and should decrease the number of accidents you make and the mistakes you make and this kind of stuff, okay.  You may still need an antidepressant but I don't know that.
 And, um, you make take a few days to get there because drug companies, um, do not like Provigil because it costs too much and we always have a battle with them but we can, this is a justified thing and so I think you won't have any trouble with getting it through.
 Uh-huh.
 Yes but, um, but if we get you, if we get the excess energy in you under control with Lamictal, you probably will not need to change it, okay, because we'll get rid of your general alertness - 
 You're hyper alertness and sort of startle those sorts of things and that will allow you to smooth out during the day.
 All right, but I'm not surprised, you're going to have some trouble sleeping right now because you changed your schedule and you're rushing everywhere you go, to go to bed, go to sleep, get up, all that stuff, you know, just ridiculous.  You're like somebody going through internship in medicine.
 Are you married, you married?
 Okay. 
 Okay, how helpful is he?
 Okay, all right, so that's good.
 Okay.  
 Uh-huh.
 That's a good thing.
 I'm not sure what you're saying, what about the water, what's the water got in it?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 All right, are you breathing it?  You are.  You get a lot of paint fumes?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh
 Okay.
 Do you got a mask?
 You got 2 masks?
 All right, you've got to take a look at that because you can get, do you remember what happened to people at ground zero where they breathed in all that dust, a lot of them have gotten their lungs clogged up with dust and they're having trouble, okay.  There's brown lung disease that you get from, um, industrial areas, you know, where you get your lungs clogged up - 
 Working in those textile mills used to do the same thing from all the cotton dust in the air, so, um, you need some sort of, some sort of filter even if you say it doesn't work, it will help, you know, a mask or something like that around your face
 Uh-huh.
 Okay, I sure would use it, even if it doesn't help, you know, if nothing else, once you breathe a few times, it's going to clog up some of the holes and it'll help more and more but you don't want to be breathing that stuff.
 All right, good.
 Whoa.
 Great.  We'll DC the Wellbutrin, we're going to add Provigil and I'm going to continue the 2mg of Xanax we're using as a cheap sleeping pill and we're going to increase the Lamictal to 100 twice a day and that ought to stabilize some of this stuff and I'll see you back in about 6 weeks.
 All right.
 Client 0735-103, 0735-103, Session number 19.
 Yeah.
 You and me both. 
 Last Friday? Yeah, last Friday.
 Hmm. Really?
 Yeah. 
 You were pretty mad.
 Yeah. And so this bill thing. It isn't just money worries. It is like in a sense you carry it all because you feel like you ought to be making enough to pay for the bills. 
 And it makes you think of shooting yourself. 
 Hmm. But that really..
 Hmm. That really got you when she said "Go to sleep."
 Yeah. 
 And I guess you heard from her, when she said she said that she didn't want you sexually, or maybe that she didn't want you period?
 Hmm. So you feel like you're only a convenience to her.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah, I imagine. 
 Um hmm. 
 Um hmm. Yeah, but some of the time, you've really been feeling low also. Like there just isn't that much left for you.
 Yeah. 
 Um hmm.
 Hmm. I don't understand. 
 Uh huh. Like you'd been hoping this could be sort of an interesting exciting thing you'd be doing together. 
 Um hmm.0:14:49.8
 Um hmm. You will remove yourself from the scene. You'll let them all carry the bag. 
 Hmm. Yeah. 
 Because here you are feeling really miserable. And things looking awfully bad. 
 Hmm. Like feeling better almost isn't worth it. 
 Yeah. From what you say, it sounds almost like you're sitting there sort of knowing that the boom is going to be lowering. You're just sort of waiting for it to come. 
 Yeah, it really kind of undermines you in terms of not to be able to pay the bills. 
 They keep after you and, I don't know, it is sort of humiliating or something. 
 Yeah. Like up to now your whole life is such a mess. 
 Because right now things are messed up beyond repair. 
 Like you never get any peace. Never get them off your back. 0:24:30.4
 Yeah. Like you're trapped with the mess now. 
 Yeah. You're really going to get it. I guess, getting it means like your wife comes in and says I want a divorce? 
 Like, how much can they all expect you to take? 
 Uh huh. It feels like you aren't even doing as well as they are. 
 You were saying something before about losing your masculinity again. Is that, perhaps a little like losing hold?
 Um hmm. Including sex. 
 Yeah. I guess especially right now when, when you're feeling so unmasculine. Like, almost like, of course married to a man like me who is, you know, she'd go out and do something. 
 Hmph. Yeah. 
 She must really resent you. 
 Yeah. It is almost like partly you feel like that is what you deserve. 
 You feel like throwing in the towel today.
 Yeah, and you also feel like well, what the hell is the use?
 Yeah, and right now you're agreeing with her too. 
 Yeah. Like with everything. You're sort of stuck like that. Like it is going bad and there is nothing you can do. 
 Yeah. You feel it is all running out from underneath you. 
 Yeah. Yeah. Like even in terms of killing yourself, you don't treat it like you're a man. 
 Yeah, it is like all this stuff is getting to be too much trouble, too much energy to maintain this front. 
 And you're feeling like all you've done is made a mess for them. 
 Like the world is rotten and you're inadequate. Everything is all going to hell shortly if it hasn't already. 0:42:12.0
 You mean like I don't give a shit either? 
 You're feeling like I'm feeling sorry for you. Like that..
 Yeah. Like there is no help coming for you. 
 Yeah. And you're just going to have to stand there and watch it burn. 
 Yeah. There's no more fresh chances for you. No more starting again. And you're just going to be a bum instead of a confident person. 
 No. Why? 
 Do you think I think you're nuts? 
 That is sort of a funny question to ask me. 
 No. I don't think you're nuts. I guess the way you're feeling is like you feel like how could anyone think otherwise?
 Well, yeah. That is kind of the truth. 
 They felt the same way about you. 
 What happened that made you feel that way?
 Uh huh. Like you'd been hoping that they wanted to swing with you or at least get together. 
 And when they didn't show up, it made you feel like boy, well, they certainly blew you off. 
 Uh huh. Uh huh. 
 Yeah. Felt like it was you they decided against. Oh well, let's not bother with him. 
 Well. 
 I guess it is. I'd just as soon give you a call and see how you are feeling about it then. 
 I wondered also if you wanted me to give to you someone else on the staff's here's name in case you wanted to come in and talk to someone while I'm away. 
 Hello. Ok, thank you then. 
 It will be about the first of October. 
 Hello. No. Yes. Ok. So, maybe I'll see you then.
 So how have you been doing?
 Uh-huh.  Do you want to tell me about it?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 I think we need to use a little stronger medicine for a while.  Can you tell us a little more about what you've been through recently?
 Pain?
 What pain?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Healthy.
 Uh-huh.  Have you had reconstruction?
 Why?
 You don't trust the doctor?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.  Now how has the appearance of your chest affected you?
 Tell me about it.
 Because of appearance or because of religious stuff?
 Self esteem?
 Yeah, because I guess the breast are kind of like your sex organ, kind of like a man having his penis cut off.
 I can understand.
 Oh no.
 You're too young to think like that.
 You kind of feel like giving up?
 Maybe we need to use a little stronger medicine for a while and see if you start feeling better and get going.
 So you've really been under a lot.  What else?
 Do you want to tell me about that?
 Why?
 Uh-huh.
 No excitement?
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 What, it needs a facelift?
 Well, why don't you all do that?
 She got what?
CG: A two thousand Honda in almost mint condition.
 You need to get involved in some organizations and do some things.  Don't you like stuff like that?
 There's a real need for it.  There's so many volunteer organizations and I want you to get back involved in the VA system out there too.
 So you can get all your benefits and things like that.  That'll give you some freedom to do some volunteer things.
 Which organizations [INAUDIBLE]
 Do you want to help those with bad children?  
 At risk children?
 There are a lot of troubled ones.
 Uh-huh.
CG: And I don't really know why, what happened on the job, but she would be up there praying with the kids.
 They got upset
 Uh-huh.
 You were praying for them.
 Who heard you?
 Who heard you and made a stink of it.
 Why would [INAUDIBLE] if it didn't cause any problems.
CG: Well, I think it did cause problems.
 Uh-huh.
CG: She would be trying to be some kind of [INAUDIBLE], want to save folks, preach.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh. 
 Uh-huh.
 How old was he?
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Well that's such a draining place you were in.
 And guess who was already tired?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 You were just drained.  So we're going to put you on a stronger medicine.  I want you just to kind of relax and get your strength back and not worry about anything.  I want you to the VA and let's get all this stuff going.
 When you get charged up, then you can start doing things again.
 With the [INAUDIBLE], you start doing some things for yourself too, you like boosting people off, you've got to [INAUDIBLE] if you want to be boosting people off.
 I enjoyed talking to you.
 Okay, any questions you want to ask me?
 Okay, we'll keep it like we're doing and I'll get the medicine for you.
 Client number 0735-103, Session number 17, 1970.
 Oh no, no.
 We're driving the (inaudible at 0:01:17.8) away for the weekend.
 No "(chuckles)".
 Right "(chuckles)".
 Why are you hurt?
 [I don't] (ph) think I should be making money off you so "(chuckles)".
 I see, I see.
 Right but did you feel insecure (ph) or a little bit hurt or...?
 Yes. There doesn't seem to be any way around this (ph).
 "(Chuckles)".
 [Enjoying the] (ph) (inaudible at 0:04:59.4).
 How do you feel about that?
 You mean you should have known that before or...?
 [So you felt a little bad] (ph) for not knowing that before?
 It would have been nice to know?
 And left out some important information.
 For their (inaudible at 0:07:57.5)? 0:07:57.7
 Like when you have sex like you weren't maintaining an erection or...?
 And I guess it's not that you just haven't been interested it's...?
 I understand, right.
 Like being interested in a mini skirt doesn't mean that you get an erection?
 Yes, it seems like with all that stimulus like you ought to. 0:11:00.8Was the... all that stimulus, like your wife and that book you read, was that making you feel aroused or was it just like it was there but it wasn't having an affect on you?
 No big deal.
 By perceive (ph) the picture do you mean understand?
 That doesn't appeal to you?
 Yes, there's no point if it's not going to come to anything. 
 You feel bad when it doesn't work out.
 You're not likely to pick up a girl in the first place and then the second place would be you (ph) and I guess what you're saying is like maybe you wouldn't get hard anyway.
 Yes, like with the bother it seems like you don't have any hope of anything developing.
 What are your reasons now?
 Yes, like now you're deterred. And yet you partly want to in a way or...?
 Is that how you're applying that to you or...?
 I guess it's not altogether, I don't know, it's not so much like you got better at doing things as you said your goals are. 0:19:41.8
 Yes, I get what you're saying, it's something like you wish you're able to move the sign function up instead of moving the zero line down.
 So you'd like to be that vigorous yourself?
 What do you mean there? 0:22:41.2
 So are you [straightening it out] (ph) the way you saw it (ph)? I guess I don't understand it entirely, like I know I understand the situation but... 0:25:27.4
 She wanted you.
 It's a pity.
 No that's okay. Did you think I didn't approve of it or something or...?
 Call it what? 
 Oh, maturity. 0:28:19.4
 And so you're thinking that maybe I felt like, well I don't want anyone fooling with my man and [to a bunch of people] (ph) who...
 And mentally you tend to look at it [and think that's] (ph) more mature, you and your wife both.
 But be aware that other people might not see it that way.
 It might be okay with you.
 But...
 So you feel like just about any woman would be disappointed?
 Yes, like a woman who likes it for a while for a couple of times?
 You're thinking that, well if it's something that she wants, if she wants to f*** and I can't give that to her well. In a way you can't be surprised with her wanting a boyfriend.
 It sounds like you feel sort of sad and a bit resigned?
 Yes, sure. 0:33:34.1
 Because nobody's helping you.
 Well it sounds like they just don't realize how important it is to you.
 Yes, I guess you're saying it's not an easy thing to admit.
 In a way that almost makes it worse because like if she could stimulate a pine tree, it's like you said before, all that stimulus there and there's nothing to blame it on.
 Is there anything different that happened, like the times when you do get hard from the times when you don't?
 Even relaxing?
 So mostly nowadays you just don't get hard period?
 But I guess that's really how you feel a little?
 Are you being (inaudible at 0:39:36.6) right now or...? 0:39:38.0
 If you pay enough attention to them you just let them depress you.
 You know those times you feel you shouldn't be sad or you shouldn't be depressed or... is that right (ph)?
 No, it's no small thing to you.
 (inaudible at 0:41:54.5] how much it occupies your thinking and also it doesn't help being able to get hard and (inaudible at 0:42:02.5). 0:42:03.6
 What were you saying about my tape?
 Oh, I don't.
 Do you mean I wouldn't want to hear it or...?
 Is there something that turns you on?
 It sounds like you're feeling maybe a little embarrassed but like also you're enjoying this?
 I see. 0:45:00.8
 But we have a few more minutes do you want to put it on (ph)?
 Do you want to put...?
 I guess it just doesn't seem right to you to continue talking along the lines that you were thinking?
 I agree with you there but I also think you can't stop a man from thinking.
 Oh yes. Yes, like you said...
 I guess what I'm trying to say to you is, yes you're right I definitely don't want to get sexually involved with you but...
 Yes and also to [bust up through] (ph) legitimate (inaudible at 0:47:38.9) about here if anything else. 0:47:40.1
 You kind of get caught doing something you're not supposed to be doing.
 By the tape listener.
 Yes there's something I want to say that I'm not sure I got across (inaudible at 0:49:35.3) like when I say to you it's alright to talk about that, it's not by way of seducing you [a little] (ph) or something, it's by way of saying it's alright to talk about that.
 "(Chuckles)" I guess we should be finished (ph).You were scheduled in for Friday. If you'd like we could try and make three sessions this week and one early next week to finish off our 20? Or else we could do it the way we planned and have one session and [take it back] (ph)?
 Well, we could do it Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
 Would you like to do it that way or...? 
 Is 4:30 okay for you?
 I don't think so. I think it may be better to schedule that appointment after you get back. I know what we can do, we can get Monday and Wednesday next week maybe.
 Well, we'll just have to see our schedule (inaudible at 0:53:45.7).
 So we'll do it on Friday like we planned.
 See you then.
 Well, I'm seeing you a little earlier than planned, by a couple of days.
 Do you feel like you're shaking right now?
 Do you feel like you're shaking right now?
 Hum.  Okay.  Well, you know, [NAME OTHER] called me today up at the hospital and said move the appointment up.  I talked to your wife, too.  I wanted to see you alone only because I was hearing so much, yknow, concern since our last visit about the anxiety, um, that, yknow, obviously they're worried about you.  Um, I guess what [NAME OTHER] had said was that, and your wife as well, was that they've seen you do well at certain points, but then at other times you just kinda burst into tears.  Get overwhelmed.
 I didn't notice any shaking when you said that.
 But is it more like anxiety?  I mean is it more that, that you're anxious inside and feel like you're shaking.
 Is it nerves?
 Well, what's changed in the last couple of weeks?
 What's different?
 I mean I saw you a few weeks ago because of the anxiety after those accidents, right?
 Uh-huh.
 Are you sleeping at night?
 Hm.
 Your wife says that you sleep most of the night, but if you wake up once or twice with that shakey feeling it feels like you're not sleeping at all.
 Now tell me what happened with the Buspar that you started.  That, I understand from [NAME OTHER], that you were taking it, but then you felt really groggy with it?
 Did you take the Buspar today?
 This morning?
 But when you take it - 
 Well, when you take a tablet of the Buspar in the morning what happens after you take it?
 Do you go, do you fall asleep or nap?
 Okay.  Do you feel less anxious?
 After you take it?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.  And you're not on anything else new medication wise besides the Buspar?
 You're still taking your Depakote?
 Depakote you're still taking?
 And you're taking 500 in the evening right?
 Okay.
 And does it have any pattern to it?  Is it all the time? Or is it - 
 At night?
 Right.
 But what about during the day?
 When you're awake during the day is there any pattern to the shivery feeling?  I mean do you get it a certain time of the day or?
 Just kinda comes on any time?
 Does it go just as quickly as it comes?
 Okay.
 Well, let's just run through it.  I mean you're taking the Depakote and now the Buspar.  Anything else at all?
 The Buspar and the Depakote.
 Okay.  Well, hum.  It sounds like anxiety to me.  It sounds like nervousness.  
 Although [NAME OTHER] was saying that you kinda burst into tears this morning.
 Oh, in to see me you mean?
 Come in to visit.
 Since the accident or before?
 Yeah, well before the accident you were doing pretty good.
 And then you had the accident and you were in a few weeks ago and we tried the Buspar, although the question then was, yknow, were you more depressed or more anxious and nervous.  I think the answer a few weeks ago was you were more anxious, shaken up by the accident.
 That's why we went to the Buspar, although it seems to me today that I mean you actually seem a little bit more depressed.
 Now we chose the Buspar over the Wellbutrin because it seemed more anxiety?  But when you had a similar episode in the past, you did pretty good with Wellbutrin, when you had more depression.
 Um-hum.
 Well, you do seem more depressed today than you did the last time you were here so, yknow, if the Buspar's not doing much at this point, I mean you're fighting, I heard you moved it to bedtime, too?  Morning and bedtime, instead of morning and dinner time?  
 Maybe we should go with the Wellbutrin.  Yknow and stop the Buspar and just go with that in the morning.
 Yeah, cause if that did you well before, and you seem, like I said you seem more depressed today.  So maybe, maybe that'll help kinda get you out of the - 
 Well, I mean you still are able to do a lot of things.
 You're able to do a lot of things it's just that your confidence is pretty low.  Yknow, it's not as bad as it was when you were in the hospital on [DEIDENTIFIED] in the past when you were hospitalized for depression.  It's obviously not that bad.  And we don't want it to get that bad.
 We want it to get better.
 It's a puzzle to me what that would be.  Buspar usually doesn't cause something like that.
 Yeah, which is funny because, yknow, you're describing side effects of things like Haldol or like Zyprexa or Risperdal, that class of medications, but Buspar's in a very different family, so I don't think it's the medication, but if you're anxious or getting more depressed that might be what you're noticing too.
 Okay.
 But you weren't when you drove down here?  Or you were?
 Well, let me go see if I have some samples of the Wellbutrin okay?  Cause I think we do.  And what I'll do is I'll bring, um, bring your wife in too.
 Okay.  Let me, you stay here - 
 Let me go go grab the keys and I will go check on the samples and I will be right back and we'll bring your wife in too, okay?  I'll be right back.
 You guys are good together.  The difference between the last visit and today is, even though you were saying anxiety, he just seems more depressed today.
CG: Yeah, he seems like really down.
 When you get depressed, I was using the word confidence - 
CG: Yeah, yeah.
 Well, you know, by taking the antidepressant I think it's going to help with your anxiety down the road, too.  And it worked well for you before.
CG: It did, hon, remember?
 Yeah.
CG: Yeah, it was Wellbutrin and and - 
 When you're depressed physical symptoms get more pronounced in your mind too.
CG: Yeah, I think so. 
 Did you notice, I mean you might have been living with those symptoms for a long time and just not as aware of it.
CG: Oh, I think he was, doctor.
 Well, we'll try this change then.  We'll stop the Buspar and we'll go, you take the Wellbutrin.  You can even take your first dose when you get home.
 And then just tomorrow morning start it in the morning.  Take a dose today when you get home.  Okay?
CG: I've got the, um, the Depakote.  I asked [NAME OTHER] that one time, how does the Depakote and the, um, the Wellbutrin they can be taken together?  
 The whole day?
 Right.
 Definitely two.  
 You've only been taking the one.  Try to get back on your schedule with one in the morning and one in the evening of the Depakote.
 Because that could be the other reason why you're feeling worse too.  
CG: Mm.
 Okay.  One twice a day.  Maybe that's even the answer too, why these aren't working all as well, but, that's a month's worth - 
 Yeah. This is what helped you get better before - 
CG: Are you gonna give me, you said that's a month's worth and you wanna see us again?
 Instead of a Friday?
 At, uh, two thirty?
 Okay.
CG: So that would be around after [DEIDENTIFIED], huh?
 And then one in the morning.
CG: And one in the morning tomorrow and be sure you go back to your Depakote [PATIENT NAME], please.  
 Here we go.
CG:  Here, hon.
 [NAME OTHER] probably has one by the office.  Let's stop by the office and - 
CG: Yeah, I would like to meet her.
 You were talking about they were closing down dealerships, right?
 Okay.
 Uh-huh.
 Really.
 Uh-huh.
 No that's okay, just shows what happens.  Nice rhythm to it.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Huh.
 It's okay.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Like Bernie Maydoff of something.
 Bernie Maydoff?
 Right.
 "Right, right."
 Um-hum.
 Only stones should be alone.
 Huh, really.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Well, how's the mood doing now?  I mean you, you were depressed, you had lost your um, father and stuff.  Now you've got the uh -
 Married now, um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Got you.
 Makes sense to me.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Yeah, you've got to be more self sufficient.
 Something like that, um-hum.  Yep there's something good about that.
 Um-hum.
 That's good.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.
 I appreciate you're humor, uh, [LAUGHING], that's all right, um -
 All right so what's -
 Yes.
 Um-hum are they closing them down?
 Uh-huh.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, well you know when they do all those things.  It's an end of an era, right?
 And GM dealerships too are getting shut down.
 Yeah, well people were saying, you know, why are they getting closed down, you know.  Why them?
 Why?
 Well, I know they're talking, I mean, they, they have to deal with all this stuff -
 Uh-huh.
 Sure.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Oh, yeah.
 That's all right.
 Yeah.
 Oh, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah, we haven't had any attacks.
 Well, they're, they're, yeah I know.  There are some thoughts that the 9/11 thing was a giant conspiracy that, planned in advance designed to have the government take control of certain things and start a war that was, uh, give endowment essentially to certain contractors and keep them in business Hal Burden perhaps being one of them or something like that -
 And so what, what they're saying -
 Yeah, what they're saying is, is that a lot of um, the Obama's and the Bush's they're all good buddies and friends and stuff like that and a lot of these people, that people locked up they're all from Saudi Arabia or what, any how they're saying that they thought it may have been a preordained thing or this is what's going to happen and you know, they're saying the government knew it was going to happen but they let it happen.  It goes back to sort of theory of Pearl Harbor, that FDR was warned -
 That, that these people are coming and they said, "Well you know what, let them come, that'll get us in to World War II, in time to save England and a time to deal with the Japs and, you know, do all that stuff."
 So they pull all the aircraft carriers out; because they said that we need those, but battleships screw them.  So they left the battleships behind.
 Double carriers.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Well, that's one of those natural checks on population is war and famine, pestilence, you know, I mean very natural checks on population growth -
 Throughout time.  Typically when you grow to a certain boundary where your lands can no longer support your people you look to expand.  Hey, look over there -
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Oh, that's all right.
 Sure he's been [INAUDIBLE] -
 Uh-huh.
 Well, in some ways North Korea maybe doing it for blackmail saying, "We'll shoot up the missiles so now you give us a few billion dollars and we won't shoot up anymore missiles."  It's like saying, "Okay we can do it, what are you going to pay us so we don't do it again?"
 It's like pay us so we don't blow up Japan.
 Yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Go bankrupt, yeah.
 Yeah -
 Well you think there might be inflation someday.
 Yeah, well that's what they're kind of hoping to get reinflation.
 Well they're going to have socialization how are they going to get rid of Social Security.
 Um-hum.
 On what?
 Separatism.
 Separatism from what?
 Oh, like segregation.
 Yes.
 Well, I think it's just going to move them to Wyoming.  That's the plan I think.
 Not to let them go just to move them around.  They're going to close Guantanamo but you know, some people who are judged harmless, quote unquote will go back home and other people they will move them to Wyoming or whatever.  Ah -
 Yeah, so how is your medicine.  Let's go over, what are you taking now?
 Okay.
 Got you.
 Um-hum.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, you're taking, so can they find the 10/660s?
 Yeah.
 Okay, right.
 Right, right are you taking Lyrica anymore?
 Okay.
 So you're still on Lexapro just are you taking 20 or 10?
 Too much?
 Okay, all right.  So, Ambien, Valium, um, the Vicodin -
 Which you're taking for your pain for your back?
 How would you say that's doing?
 Okay.
 On your nerves there back there?
 It hurts.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.
 [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.
 Perfect.
 Um-hum.
 Got you, so you understand the risk, benefits, and alternatives of the medication.  Treatment plan to your satisfaction, you're okay with that?
 Well, do you understand the medication, how it works and the risks.
 Well, anything's possible.  I don't think -
 Anything is possible, I don't think it's likely -
 I don't think it's going to be killing you.  Take too much of it and it can so don't, don't take -
 Yeah, yep.  No suicidal thoughts?
 Against yourself -
 Your not try to hurt yourself -
 You're not hallucinating or anything?
 Right.
 Good.
 Uh-huh.
 Yep, all right well sir, I think we're all set.  Let me turn this off, I want to see you back in a month.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Oh sure.
 50 minutes.
 Well maybe to focus wherever you would like.
 You're clear that you don't think it's productive. Or am I misunderstanding?
 You know, as I said, I'm ready to focus wherever you would like to focus. What I would-the only thing I would say is that it may not be possible to change your relationship with your mother. Certainly it is unlikely that your mother's going to change.
 Right? I mean that's just really unlikely. How you feel about that relationship and how intolerable it feels to you, or how-where it sits in you, for yourself, that may be something that maybe be amenable to change. But as I said, that's, you know, but how that happens is not necessarily by talking about her. It is a complex process so-[00:06:05 ]
 Perhaps it feels that you're treading water here as well?
 What do you mean boundaries between you and Skyler?
 Well why do you want to separate it?
 Why are you paying for her ticket?
 Do you have a child support arrangement?
 Is that by choice?
 Is there a conflict about it?
 Why would you get a mediator?
 So Jemma's jealous?
 She's acting like she's jealous?
 How do you feel when Jemma raises questions about your sending money to Skyler?
 So she's disinterested and she's in an objective position?
 Does that mean following their lead and taking their suggestions and-is that what that means? That's what it sounds like with this situation, like Jemma said, "Well what about these checks?" and you experience it as she's raising an important question, you should think about it. Maybe you shouldn't be writing these checks, maybe she's right.
 But I don't think you always like it.
 I don't think you always like it as much as you say you do. For example, you didn't like it here.
 Yeah.
 You said you were upset. [00:23:13 ]
 That's your thought of running a dating service?
 I was wondering if somewhere in the fantasy of running a dating service was the idea-I mean I say fantasy in the sense of idea and thoughts about or daydream, is that a fair characterization?
 I was wondering if somewhere in there was the idea that you would also sleep with them? [00:30:05 ]
 You had a big reaction when I started speaking. What was that?
 As I started speaking and I said I was wondering if in this fantasy, you were laughing. What struck you?
 Fixing me up?
 Yes maybe that is part of what's in your mind.
 No?
 You thought it.
 It's complicated. I'm thinking about those forms, I'm thinking-and also the camera which, I'm thinking about that. But I think from time to time you're aware of the camera, maybe-
 No? Has it just receded? But the forms are-there's the forms and there's, the interviews went through at the start of all of this, that's all a part of the picture here and a part of what this is like for you and I think it's just very important to keep in mind.
 That I might be viewing you as shallow?
 Well that concern of being exposed, seeing-well being exposed and needing to be-and feeling very tied up with worries about how you're coming across, it makes it hard to be open as you might wish to be right? [00:39:22 ]
 I feel I have to be very precise here because I am not so concerned with the morality or immorality of the-of the feelings that you have and it kind of sounds like that kind of question. Like that's a bad idea. Now it may be that it's not very nice but I don't expect that people's inner lives are always all about being nice. [00:42:03 ]
 Are you that kind of guy who befriends women and sleeps with them?
 I can safely say that I don't feel any impediment to working with you. As for whether I approve of you or not, I think that's something to examine. How much that's in the air I think a lot of the time and I think that all those forms really bring it forward even more than it might be otherwise and I think the evaluations and the camera bring it forward even more than it would be otherwise. Although I suspect that for you in therapy, this would be a big issue, whether or not I approve of you. Which is a different thing from whether I seek to understand, whether I have warm feelings, whether I'm interested and attentive.
 Approval is something different and I think that there's a lot to look at about how very, very much you are needing me to be approving of you and how uncomfortable it is, although you manage it, you manage it, right? You come to these sessions and how uncomfortable it is that I don't say whether I approve of you or not. [00:45:06 ]
 I think that you're concerned that your expression of your giving voice to sexual fantasies or acknowledging when I asked about sexual fantasies and even, I think, by implication that I might be one of those women coming to this dating service is somewhere in that picture. I think that's got you very worried, that I'm not liking you right now in this moment.
 Yeah just [inaudible] [00:48:19 ].
 That you have a mission to be the mensch [ph] to make up for all the men who are jerks? Or to make up for having been a jerk?
 Does it make sense to me? I don't know.
 We could pick up wherever you'd like.
 [Inaudible] .[00:49:25 ]
 We'll have to resume next week.
 I'm not a doctor, my name is Julie Larsen and you can refer to me as you wish.
 Well you're-say what's on your mind and I could hardly dictate to you what to call me if my role is that people should say what's on their mind.
 Thank you.
 Actually none of my (door closing, inaudible at 00:00:04) have one more office beyond mine. I have been actually.
 No people have been on time the last two weeks.
 Yeah.
 (Laughs) Ready at the time we're scheduled to meet. But today I'm running late so.
 Yeah.
 Right, right, right.
 Flee this way?
 Good. [00:00:56]
 Right (voices overlapping, inaudible at 00:01:09) car door.
 Right.
 Good.
 Great.
 Yeah it's cool.
 Cool. [00:02:14]
 Yeah.
 Right. [00:03:40]
 Right.
 Uh-huh.
 Right.
 Right.
 Good. [00:04:44]
 That's good. Getting a little more love there. [00:06:08]
 I think you're okay.
 Seems kind of lonely on Monday mornings.
 Not ready to face the week? [00:07:10]
 Mm-hmm. [00:08:03]
 (Pause) Well maybe you're also feeling a little more up to talking to the parents.
 Oh no, the other parents like at swimming.
 Uh-huh. [00:09:12]
 Right. Like kind of (inaudible at 00:09:23).
 Nosy?
 I think a lot of people in general are.
 Kind of like your mother.
 Oh no. [00:10:30]
 Oh shit.
 Yeah.
 Good.
 (Pause) Am I nosy?
 Am I nosy?
 Yeah but inside of here? [00:11:32]
 I'm not very observant.
 I see.
 Mm-hmm.
 Oh.
 Oh yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well (pause)
 Right.
 Well it also sounds like part of what was frustrating about talking to your dad is that (pause) he wanted to, I guess which he kind of often does, I haven't really thought about this, but he's often like pushing you to do things, or make changes, or do this, or do that rather than just kind of talking about how it's going, what's going on,
 how you're doing, stuff like that. Which sounds like more what you would have wanted.
 Yeah.
 Mm-hmm. I don't know, I guess what seems clear as you were talking about the conversation yesterday was that you were frustrated and upset that, you know, on the one hand you were on the phone with him but on the other hand it just, you know, was not the conversation that was going to make you feel any better. [00:17:31]
 I mean maybe not even like you had to tell him anything in particular, but it just, you know, comes out.
 Wow.
 That's good.
 Yeah. Yeah he would, what are you going to look at?
 Okay. [00:18:42]
 Right.
 Mm-hmm.
 (Pause) Something happened that, right there, like your mood seemed to dip. I think it was when you brought up the guy who called and gave you the sob story. (Pause) Like, you seem more, kind of, flat and down than you seemed two minutes ago.
 Uh-huh.
 Right. [00:22:15]
 That's pretty low.
 (Pause) It's not like feeling sad or lonely, it's just (pause) feeling kind of the hell out of you.
 Yeah that's what happened last week too I think.
 Yeah. I think later in the week maybe you were doing a little better last week? Then the weekend's better because you're kind of doing stuff and seeing people and having a good time.
C LIENT: Well I think that's what happens, I get to Thursday and I have E&G; or—
 Uh-huh. [00:23:14]
 (Pause) Maybe that is one of the reasons I became a psychologist, so I can deal with hearing about regurgitating snot.
 Yeah.
 How many people— Oh go ahead, go ahead.
 Well and I guess partly for just not meeting people and partly for (pause) not having the money to go out much?
 Oh yeah.
 Uh-huh. [00:26:54]
 A lot of (inaudible at 00:27:21).
 (Pause) Do you want to join a temple? [00:27:58]
 Mm-hmm, right.
 (Pause, client sighs) What's the downside?
 Mm-hmm. (Pause) Well you wouldn't necessarily have to go to services.
 Right. [00:29:08]
 (Pause) I don't know, you can (pause), I'm sure they probably have different kinds of events for potential new members.
 Yeah. [00:30:17]
 (Pause) What was wrong with it? Why didn't you like the fit?
 Mm-hmm.
 (Pause) Yeah. One more thing you have to get motivated for.
 (Pause) I wonder if it would help to plan stuff for like Monday night? Or, you know, make sure you have meal planning, whatever you need to make for lunch on Monday? Is that something that would help? [00:32:48]
 Yeah. I guess I'm saying on Monday specifically, like give you something to look forward to a little bit or maybe it would help get you moving?
 Mm-hmm.
 Okay. [00:35:08]
 Well maybe you're tired from feeling down yesterday too?
 (Pause) What if you're doing most of the right things?
 I mean maybe—
 (Pause) No but you're getting more, you said last time you're getting more of the landlord/tenant stuff, there's some things that are picking up, and you've certainly been quite a bit more social I think over the last few months than you've been before that. I'm not saying things are where you want them, but, I mean you're (pause) thinking about dating, which you (pause) hadn't been doing. [00:37:29]
 Mmm.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Do you mind if we finish up for now and then go a little over on Friday? I think I was running ten minutes late.
 Thanks for being (inaudible at 00:39:03), sorry I'll try to be better.
 Thanks, you too.
 Okay wait a minute. So...
 Now I remember that. And...
 I remember that too.
 I remember that too. The part that I'm really struck by is so is the message said she's no longer seeing patients in that office?
 Okay, sent a letter. Like does that mean you're not seeing here anymore? 
 Oh okay. That's very; that's quite striking to me that you would have had no notice. I mean as far as you knew, she was out like for vacation or...?
 Oh okay. 
 Oh with medical. That changes a little bit. It's really strange for a clinician to like all of a sudden let you know, "By the way, I can't see you except for a half an hour from where we usually met," or whatever. But I mean if it's medically... 
 Right, you like this other doctor better.
CLIENT; We agreed we like her better, but something's wrong with her now because it's one thing, you know, to not call someone back, but when you call them a third time and their voice mail box is full, she's not checking her messages.
 I mean...
 That I don't know. 
 No. No, that...that would be really unlikely and totally unprofessional at best.
 Right, so your most immediate question is?
 How long will the meds last that you currently have?
 Okay. So there's not a short term issue of you running out of meds. That would be the most pressing thing.
 Absolutely. Right, but that's not a like, "Oh my God," has to happen tomorrow problem.
 Okay. You left her three messages or two messages?
[04:29]
 Okay. You had been seeing her every week, right, for two or three weeks.
 So she just got back from vacation; she's got a whole bunch of other patients dumped in her lap. She seemed quite on top of things [inaudible 04:56]. Okay, just give her some time. 
 She's not making enough money to keep the house?
 Yeah.
 Right. So alright, let me get this straight. So it feels like you don't know who the hell you're going to be seeing for meds. There's a major problem with the short sale of the condo. And the shit may be hitting the fan around Jess not being able to keep the house. And you don't know how you short sale that because of the liens on it. 
[10:40]
 I think all the...pretty much everything you're listing out is kind of a way that you're [inaudible 15:16] and that you're either unsure of, overwhelmed by, or unable to deal with or set right. 
[15:36]
And I think part of what you're trying to make very clear to me is how completely impossible your situation is. 
 Well, I mean the things you're describing today are things that seems like you're in your own way on.
[19:14]
 I don't have the impression that you spend that much money that you shouldn't really in the scheme of things. I mean when you don't have any or your balance is negative, anything you spend is money that you don't have. I understand that. But you know, around food; you sometimes spend money to go do things like play in tournaments or you know, went away for the weekend that you usually enjoy or feel good about having done; and that, in the scheme of things, really don't cost that much. I mean there maybe things that I don't know about, but I don't have the impression that you're pretty irresponsible with money these days.
 That's a huge problem; it's just a different problem. That's all I'm saying. It also Is not obvious to me what should doing with your free time that you're not doing? Okay, cleaning your apartment. But what else should you be doing?
 I mean none of that is really going to do that much for you to get done. I understand it's going to get it done, but we're not talking about some major way you're shooting yourself in the foot. 
[21:53]
 I mean, [inaudible 24:17] important, but the like that's the overriding thing is not having to [inaudible 24:23] that's two titles is your coffee all month. You know what I mean like; I know buying a pound of coffee, it saves you a few bucks but...
 I guess it seems to me like the way bigger reasons things are difficult financially is because you don't have more work. And your spending money the way you spend money and the way you're not taking care of certain things, especially the way that you feel you're fucking up, at least in dollars and cents terms is so much smaller an issue than your just not having more work. 
[25:38]
I mean the spending money and not getting things done is here. Like not having more work is there. This isn't about you fucking up. 
Yeah, I mean [inaudible 28:27] to me like by far the biggest issue is how hard it is to find more work. 
 Right.
 I assume you don't really see any options or alternatives or anything else you can be doing?
 Yeah, I remember you telling me that like there is absolutely no job market for [inaudible 31:56] practice. And that you couldn't really imagine like shifting over to try to work in other kinds of law. 
[32:30]
What's on your mind?
 I feel; this is making me think of three different things. One of which is how awful you're feeling. Another which is whether it would be helpful for us to talk more about like the practical side of what you could do to start making more money; not because I think I know anything or would have especially good ideas, but because [inaudible 39:56] talking some like, sometimes see things when you talk to me like how it's all in your head, you know. I know you thought a lot about it, but I wonder about that. And the third thing is, I mean it's all [inaudible 40:15] worry about your safety. Like [inaudible 40:22]. I mean I can certainly understand that you're feeling completely at the end of your rope. 
 In the past, you've mentioned the kids. 
[42:18]
 Okay.
 In general, I'd give you better odds than that.
 I said in general, I'd give you better odds than that. We have to stop in a minute. [inaudible 46:38]. 
 [inaudible 47:26].
 Client number 0735-103, session number 18, August 28th 1970.
 But you had to wait a long time to ask. 
 Yeah, trying to catch her up there. 
 In terms of it made you wonder, how come she used the word "fuck"? Did she have something in mind?
 It made you want to ask me, do you think of things like that?
 Is it kind of like the message you got was well I'm going to be frank with you and you can be frank with me and it's open between us.
 Kind of something earthy and good.
 Yeah, like you don't want to pussyfoot around and talk about [inaudible at 08:39] either.
 Told like in technical terms.
 Are you excited and pleased about that?
 A little worried and disturbed.
 Two more.
 I'll be in town until Wednesday if you're around we can see each other Monday and Wednesday.
 So you lined yourself up another woman.
 You didn't feel productive and effective.
 Because you'd like to stay up above being depressed.
 Like you're not going to have much chance. 
 So you have to make do.[18:20]
 [inaudible at 18:49]
 [inaudible at 20:29]
 Just been attending to your filing. 
 Organize you mean.
 And that was the last straw. It's like you couldn't even go to bed without clutter.
 Does all that clutter and the mess, and the mess in your daughter's bed have some particular meaning for you beyond what you're saying about like it's just annoying and you're used to it being neat. 
 It makes you feel lower class.
 It's sort of like you can't quite hold your head up.
 [inaudible at 30:15]
 Shows you as someone that is not a stable, healthy person.
 I don't necessarily [inaudible at 30:54]
 It would be nice to have some close friends like that. 
 Just sort of a warm thing you could have.
 Another couple helps her fill in the areas where you're not compatible. 
PATIENTS: Fill in the gaps, right. We've gotten close to it sometimes. There's this one couple that we were very close friends to and they were sort of this way. And my wife had an experience one time and we were fairly close. Something like this, the two of them would want to go to this REO Speedwagon thing, why it's fine, go. His wife and I could never hit it off too well. We were friends but as far as the two of us going to bed I don't think it would ever happen. It didn't and I don't think it would have. We've been friends with them for four years, but nonetheless I keep thinking well I can tolerate a situation where this other couple, if the guy wants to go to bed with my wife and the guy's wife doesn't want to go to bed with me I could tolerate a situation where we'd sit around and play Monopoly or whatever while they were in the bedroom. But this may be not be the same feeling on the part of another couple. This one couple that we're going out to the nudist thing with, if one of them is in bed the other one has to be in bed. None of this I'll stay here and play Monopoly type thing. At least I don't think they would be. What are you looking at me like that for? My amblings have got kind of confused?
 I don't know, I think I was just trying to make some bigger point out of it than the way in which you want to be happy, and you want your wife to be happy too. [39:34]
 You just tagged along.
 You mean like when you have an idea, you don't feel comfortable.
 Also like your ideas would be apt to shock people.
 Kind of like a kid with a secret.
 Yeah that's right. We're almost finished.
 When you said that about it being kind of late in the day to make a cigarette pact, did that come out of a sense of regret for things we haven't talked about or things that haven't happened and it's already over.
 It wouldn't take much.
 You're kind of regretful?
 Like all of a sudden just like that.
 What's wrong with you that your friends don't stay around.
 I was just thinking in a way we've been talking about friendships the whole hour in a sense.[48:00]
 Well, we've been talking about getting to be friends with couples.
 Are you?
 [inaudible at 48:47]
 Good things slip through your fingers.
 No, no, I'm just looking for a match. [52:26]
 It's kind of a success for you.
 ...awfully glad to see him struggling with a problem.
 And you were like, well maybe now he'll feel sorry for kicking you in the pants.
 All right. One-thirty? 
 Okay, I'll see you on the two.
 Session eight. (inaudible at 0:00:06.2).
 I'm fine (inaudible at 0:00:06.6).
 Are you hesitant about calling it?
 You mean you've been really busy finishing up on the grades?
 Yeah. What does that mean?
 With this...
 (inaudible at 0:01:40.3) a distance that you feel between you and them?
 But they don't really — to really consider you one of them or to what (inaudible at 0:02:10.5)?
 Friendly to you or something.
 That they're making fun of you. And the feeling sounds like there's something (inaudible at 0:02:38.6) feeling sorry for yourself besides feeling sorry for yourself that (inaudible at 0:02:43.6), but not wanting to feel that way.
 It sounds like maybe things are getting to you.
 Um-hmm.
 And you're saying that bothers you too?
 Today?
 Um-hmm (inaudible at 0:03:55.8).
 But you're feeling very much laughed at by them and pushed out.
 Like they're all close together and pushed you out.
 But you're feeling like they look down on you?
 Feel condescending about you?
 But on some of the things (inaudible at 0:05:29.8) this clique.
 Um-hmm.
 (inaudible at 0:06:08.8) they're looking down on you partly because they don't understand you.
 The value of certain things that you have.
 Um-hmm. It's just like today you're feeling particularly left out by them.
 Um-hmm. It's not so much like what you really want to have with them.
 What they like to do, go out and have lunch with them. But it's more like it's a feeling you're excluded that makes you feel bad.
 And so, they said that to you and?
 But you do feel like you want to be accepted by everyone?
 It's like feeling that there isn't any group that you can belong to and accept value as part of their values.
 And that it makes you feel very kind of all by yourself.
 Uh-huh. And in a way there is a kind of a freedom to it?
 Um-hmm. So, the nice part about it is that it's not forced on you, no pressure.
 But there's also a quality of missing something in that?
 Um-hmm. Sort of being — you know.
 You might have.
 I don't think you did, not exactly this way, but I believe you did.
 Um-hmm. So, it's just like feeling different.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. But it's a feeling of lacking support, I think, because (inaudible at 0:12:02.2) feel that there's nobody who you can talk about yourself to, who, like, understands you because they're all like you.
 (inaudible at 0:12:12.5).
 It's a feeling that they don't understand you because they aren't like you.
 But growing up without a system around you.
 Like values as a group.
 Um-hmm.
 But the ones you get along with you mean are different from what you think of as black culture the same way you are.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. [inaudible at 0:14:04.5].
 Um-hmm. Not too white, white, but not too black, black.
 The grays of the world.
(laughter)
 That doesn't mean (inaudible at 0:14:45.7).
 Um-hmm. I don't know quite what you're saying. Are you saying that bothers you a little bit?
 Okay. You're just saying that's how you are?
 Um-hmm.
 You live it.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. And that that's how you are, (inaudible at 0:16:27.5) the focus of your life is.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. Your greatest interests aren't with the social world (inaudible at 0:16:45.2).
 Are those people who are going out and changing things in the world. [0:16:47.4]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. You're quieter than that or more...
 Is that what you're saying that you're not the leader type?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. You're not the organizer type.
 Right.
 I'll ask about that, I'm not sure.
 What...
 I see.
 Well (inaudible at 0:18:16.5) is it that you're worried what it might show? Why were you wanting to know?
 Uh-huh. Yeah, it's like a lack of information.
 And another part of it you said sounded like wondering, do I deserve to feel sorry for myself? Is it just that...
 Is it just that I feel sorry for myself, and there's really nothing wrong with me?
 Or is it something different than that? Am I really — I don't know what the other part would be. If you were neurotic, that would somehow make you feel different about feeling sorry for yourself?
 How would that be...
 Um-hmm. Well, if you found out — okay, so like just real doubt of knowing what to make of what happens to you?
 If somebody seems to be slighting you, like what does that really mean, are they, aren't they? Are you imagining it?
 Um-hmm. It's kind of like having no inference of how to look at the world and yourself.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. And it seems like it means something about being more independent.
 Um-hmm. And that makes you feel that in some ways you are independent.
 Um-hmm.
 You'd feel bad.
 Um-hmm. Are you saying that gives you a feeling of validity, the fact that don't change?
 You've let it pervade everything.
 And you've forgotten about the strength you might have.
 Um-hmm.
 So what you're doing now is reassessing.
 I think it depends on the person.
 Well now, wait a minute, let's see, why are you asking me if I feel like...
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. What I think is, like, everybody is independent in some ways and dependent. And I think what you're doing now is reassessing in what ways you're independent and what ways you're not. What ways you're strong and in what ways you're weak.
 And feeling your strength more than you have before.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. There's a basic part of you that doesn't get caught up in being laughed at or feeling bad about things.
 Um-hmm. It's like it's been covered up by all these other things.
 Um-hmm. Now you're questioning it.
 Um-hmm. Maybe what you have to do, you're saying, just stop acting that way just because they all think you're that way. [0:26:40.8]
 I have a feeling that there's a little part of you right now surging up from inside and saying, now wait a minute.
 I (inaudible at 0:26:55.7) that weak.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. But that's how you feel immediately.
 But there's a second reaction which comes more deeply within you.
 Because you've had a lot of pressure (inaudible at 0:27:54.2).
 Um-hmm. It makes you feel stronger to feel that you haven't given in to all those pressures and had a nervous breakdown.
 You can or can't?
 Um-hmm.
 (inaudible at 0:29:02.9).
 That it's not the end of the world if I can't bowl.
 You're saying it's the kind of thing that bothers you very much sometimes. But then when you look at it later it doesn't bother you.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 I don't know the book.
 I've heard of it.
 I don't know anything about the book.
 My general attitude towards books on positive thinking is that it has some value, but you can't really hold on (inaudible at 0:30:54.9) positive thinking.
 I think that line of thought has some value.
 But I think it — to me personally, (inaudible at 0:31:07.9) I can't run my life according to that (inaudible at 0:31:10.2).
 Sets out too much.
 Just for me personally, it becomes too artificial because I don't feel terribly positive about (inaudible at 0:31:31.2).
 (inaudible at 0:31:33.9).
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 That doesn't solve the problem.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah. What you want...
 Is to get strength within yourself and security, so that you can take whatever happens to you in the world.
 Right, more easy, don't let it get to you so much because you're still vulnerable.
 Uh-huh.
 Right, right, and you feel like knocked about by whatever happens to you, going around (inaudible at 0:33:25.2).
 I guess basically you're happy (inaudible at 0:33:28.8) sad.
 You're shaking a little bit.
 Um-hmm. (inaudible at 0:33:55.2).
 I understand that because the same thing happens to me.
 I'm thin and when I am very depressed I get thinner.
(laughter)
 Yeah.
 In what way?
 Because the psychiatrist told the patient how awful (inaudible at 0:35:57.2)?
 And what (inaudible at 0:36:02.3)?
 It sounds like you feel like you would like it better if I did that? Or that would seem like...
 Appropriate? [0:36:27.4]
 Um-hmm. Getting it clear in your mind and just talking about it with somebody?
 Um-hmm. I don't think you'd ask me whether I feel that or not. I don't recall.
 Really? Like, if you think that if I thought you were complaining too much, I would hide that?
 And not tell you that.
 So, that sounds like you don't trust me to be honest with you.
 What?
 I'm not — that's okay if you don't. You know, I mean, that's alright. But why should you, you don't know me that well?
 Um-hmm. And you think you complain too much?
 So when it — you feel (inaudible at 0:38:46.8) then it doesn't feel like complaining, it feels like asking or wanting what's reasonable.
 So, if I said you were complaining, then you (inaudible at 0:39:01.2) for like defending yourself.
 That's just what you just said sounded like (inaudible at 0:39:06.6).
 Um-hmm. (inaudible at 0:39:58.4) the quality, that's what you're talking about.
 Why would a man be attracted to me?
 What qualities (inaudible at 0:40:15.4) qualities that I have, or sort of like — or sort of like, these are kind of a — well, somebody should be attracted to me?
 Um-hmm. Who are you to feel indignant if somebody isn't?
 You mean how...
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. So that's the part that makes you feel bad when there's nobody attracted to you.
 Yeah. And if that's the part that you're asking yourself sort of like — this is what you were saying before, I guess like I do feel bad that nobody likes me. Now, is that just feeling sorry for myself?
 Or what is that? Is that legitimate? What do I have a right to expect or can I expect?
 Or that...
 What's the question?
 What's happened?
 Uh-huh. But it's like, do I have the right to want somebody to care about me — want some man to care about me? What's the...
 I don't know, it's the word "right" I think that's hanging me up. It's like I don't know what you mean by that. I mean, I (inaudible at 0:44:06.6) about that.
 Um-hmm. Yes. Well, do I have a right to expect it from life? Well, are you talking about one person liking you or (inaudible at 0:45:00.1)?
 Um-hmm. So you're saying it does seem reasonable to you. You feel you do have the right to want — at least you're saying, I'm a woman and I can't help wanting that. [0:45:29.2]
 Oh, I see, that's what you're saying, can I help wanting that? Can I help hoping for that? Should I just accept that it can't happen?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 (inaudible at 0:46:15.1).
 Yeah, I understand what you said. Let me just say a few things. I think part of the reason — I feel we're getting into a (inaudible at 0:46:23.4) like I'm having trouble responding to you.
 Not because I have mixed feelings about those kinds of things for myself, I think, so I'm having trouble listening, really hearing what you're saying I think. See, I think it's a very hard question because it's saying what about — are you talking about now because you have this deformity? Is that what you're talking about? Do I have to accept men not liking me for that reason?
 You're not talking about that.
 You're talking about...
 Right, okay. So what you're saying, if I have trouble attracting men, should I accept that, or should I try to work it out and see what I can do about it? [0:47:21.6]
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. Why would you accept it?
 Um-hmm. So what you're saying, is this the kind of a thing to accept or like having long fingers. Or it's the kind of a thing to push against.
 It's like fuzzy, it's hard to know.
 You're miles away from knowing.
 How to feel about it, how to orient yourself, whether to stop trying or keep trying.
 No, I don't think I — I didn't mean to say I have mixed feelings.
 I said I have complicated feelings.
 About accepting things and (inaudible at 0:49:19.1).
 Um-hmm.
 In other words, the clue is not answering — the clue is not getting a man or not getting a man. The clue is how you feel about yourself.
 Yes.
 Uh-huh. You're saying if you felt good about yourself as a woman to start with.
 Then it's like having — attracting a man would have a very different meaning to you.
 And attracting a man wouldn't be to get to feel good about yourself because you'd already have that.
 It would be for other reasons.
 Um-hmm, right. But somehow that would change things.
 Yeah, I see what you're...
 Um-hmm.
 Well, let me say something about that. See, when you talk about does the therapist ever do this for clients. And I understand why you're asking it that way because you (inaudible at 0:51:41.6). But I would like the way we do things here to be more like individually set up. Like say, you know, if you want to ask me that then ask me that, like you and me rather than therapist and client. You see what I'm saying?
 So then we see, then we work it out, it depends.
 As?
 I'm trying to figure out how I feel about answering that question.
 I guess I don't, no. I don't, but I feel that a lot of the reason maybe that I've gotten to know you better (inaudible at 0:52:41.3). I see you as moving, I feel, but I don't want that to be taken, see, as some kind of pronouncement. That's just my opinion. [0:52:52.3]
 How do you feel about it?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. Well, now does that mean...
 Go ahead.
 And (inaudible at 0:54:33.2).
 But it doesn't filter through is what you're saying.
 Um-hmm.
 I think I understand what you're saying. I don't know if what you're saying is — some people would say that it means I change my thinking, but my feelings down deep haven't really changed. But I don't think that's quite what you're saying. I think you're saying I'm thinking new thoughts about myself. [0:55:46.6]
 But that doesn't always reach me, a feeling of — that doesn't change how badly I feel often when I'm in the situation.
 And how long is this going to take, you're saying.
 Um-hmm.
 Yeah.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. I think it's partly a matter of time, not just as far as seeping through kind of. I think it takes a while to — like you're beginning to think about and beginning to explore things that are just not explored yet.
 And part of it is that.
 Either way.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 You're worth something.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm. But the center of it.
 You're feeling worthwhile because you're a person.
 This feeling is related to how people have treated you all through your life.
 Um-hmm.
 I see. (inaudible at 0:59:53.3).
 Something — let's see, something about that (inaudible at 1:00:24.4). Well, it's a feeling that it's all in your makeup and how you feel about yourself depends a lot on how other people have felt about you in the past.
 You're saying can I feel okay about myself, or do I (inaudible at 1:00:39.0) part of it. It's like, if they thought I'm not worth it, then are they right and I should accept that?
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Um-hmm.
 Like free of all the other opinions.
 Um-hmm. So maybe if you can fight through that (inaudible at 1:01:35.2) fight free of that, then you'll be stronger because you won't be so dependent on other people's opinions. We have to stop.
 Sounds like you're feeling guilty about (inaudible at 1:01:50.4).
 Next Wednesday at 3:30?
 Okay. That will be fine.
 Goodbye.
 You can't even go visit.
CG: Yeah you can't [INAUDIBLE].
 Well if you keep hitting your mother, I might have to reconsider.
 [LAUGHING], yeah I know.  I hear that all the time, you paying attention in school?
CG: [PATIENT NAME]?
 You doing your homework?
 Sometimes?  Mom has to remind you a few times?
 Sometimes?
CG: I have to remind him of everything.  I mean he can't, he has no initiative to do anything other than what he wants to do.
 How does he do that?
CG: Just you know, if you have somebody over to the house, he just tries to ignore everyone around [INAUDIBLE].
 You sleeping okay at night?
 Hard to get any sleep?
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 About what time?
CG: I wouldn't say every night.  [INAUDIBLE] you know half.
 Up for how long?
CG: What he usually turns on the TV, I don't really know how long; because I'm not up the whole time.
 How many nights a week would he be waking up would you think?
CG: Um, maybe three, three or four.
 Save it for you, huh?
CG: Um-hum, of course.
 That's good.
CG: So that's really not a big deal, I would say.
 Well, good.
CG: He, since we where here last time we had an IEP and he goes to um, in a self-contained class just for like 30 minutes a day.  He's doing resource for reading -
 How, so how long is he in there everyday?
CG: Uh, maybe about 30 minutes and then he's in resource for 2 hours a day.
 How many kids are in there?
CG: How many children are in there [PATIENT NAME]?
 How was your weekend?
CG: Good, he went over to a friends and spent the night.  He had a good weekend.
 How many is he take -
 They make a spray, you want to spray it up your nose instead -
 Taking a pill.
CG: Would you like to do that?
 Could use that instead.
 I was thinking they make two different tablets too.
CG: This is like a white kind of a -
 You are supposed to swallow it.
CG: You are supposed to swallow it, yeah you're supposed to swallow it.
 Because you don't swallow it fast enough.
CG: I think, it's like rough and kind of grainy.  I don't I know -
 Um-hum.
CG: It's like uh, and then, um, Vistaril of capsules inserted like it's slick.  So those are easier for him to swallow I think.
 Any side effects from those medicines?
CG: He has trouble with his speech, like if he's trying to tell somebody something.  He will talk and stutter and I mean he just can't get it out some days and other days it's better.
 Just once a day?
CG: Just once a day.
 Do you say that, you say that at school?
 So you don't say that all the time do you?
CG: Now he's just been kind of defiant like that lately, you know, just -
 I thought you were going to build something here.
 I see that.
 You can pick your nail, toenails on the way home.
CG: Trash, [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.
CG: But I mean, you know, sometimes he just can not get it out.
 No, no this is another guy, but it is a bite of uh, it's not a notch in terms of what goes out and what can go out.
CG: Um-hum.
 But some, isn't it like he's just try to talk too fast?
CG: It's like he's stuttering.
 Right.
 That's what I think, I think it's him wanting to talk faster than he really can.
CG: I don't know, or it's like he's trying to process his thoughts or something -
 You're talking fine in here.
CG: [INAUDIBLE].
 After it's working -
 And after it wears off.
 Like what?
CG: Well those energy drinks you -
 Doesn't she know how to say what's that word, no.
CG: She doesn't know that word, [LAUGHING].
 She is huh?
 [LAUGHING] .
CG: I thought Wednesday and Thursday I just "oh God."
 Yeah, you can't have those; because tell her, tell her that it inner acts with his medicine and it'll run his blood pressure up or something.
CG: Okay.
 Yeah is that what you're wanting?
 They're not good for you.
 Okay.
CG: And it would make no sense.
 Well who brought that up on the computer?  Did you find that?
 Huh.
 You think that might be part of it?
 What are you learning at school now?
 Nobody?
 Who was he?
 And?
 Where did you learn that?
 On the what?
 What games that?
 Is that a video game?
 Who shot him?
 Was it the enemy or one of his own men?
 Think so, wasn't one of his own men?
 Oh, is that his IEP you had out?
CG: Oh, no that's just -
 Yeah, were you I'd think you be more interest in the Revolutionary War.
 You'd read all about Swomfox.
 That's boring?
 Are you reading much with him at home or his he reading much on his own?
 Are you?  You remembering any -
 Well you remembering what you've read?
CG: He does pretty good with that.
 If he reads if silently?
 So when you say that if he hears it he's going to remember it.
CG: If he's reading and it could be, you know, like if we read a page here and then we stop for five minutes and he has to go to the bathroom, or get something to drink -
 And how many years has it been?
 Wow, well congratulations.
 So, how has it felt difficult for you recently? (1:51)
 How much do you usually drink?
 You didn't tell me that, no.
 So, how did that happen that this, how do you think that that happened that that interaction with her, that unsatisfying interaction with that family, how did the other, all these painful feelings start to come in after that? (7:54)
 And then [how did you feel] (ph) after that?
 Because as you're telling it, I'm aware of how, you know, you first blame yourself and then it triggers all these negative memories. And then what actually happened, you know, I was sort of surprised to hear that that's what your reaction was because what actually happened sounded like much more vague and, like, other people were really involved and I don't get a feeling for exactly, you know, what, you know, Jerry had actually done or what you had done.
And the fact that he could have also been more assertive about, like, no I'm helping her, you know what I mean. So, the fact that you would blame yourself when, in a situation that seems more like, well maybe you could have been more assertive, but maybe he could have also been more assertive. And then, you know, how it could trigger such unhappy feelings. You know, I think that's interesting because it wasn't like he had said something rejecting. Well, the feeling was rejecting. (11:48)
 (overlapping) See, I hear a lot more happening of what you were saying to yourself and what you're interpreting to yourself than what the events actually that occurred. Because other times you've told that you've gone back there and they'd been like, where were you last week? And, you know, always asking when you might come back. So, if you interpreted that they wanted you or I'll bring you the tape next week.
 Do you think it's possible that she's involved with him? I mean, and not the aunt or something?
 You know, I'm really wondering now if maybe that also has to do more with his reactions than him not wanting to see you as much all of a sudden after always him and his sister always wanting to see you for like months, right. Then maybe these other people's presence, like you said the last week, he seemed like maybe uncomfortable about the kids' teasing. And that woman sounds like she has quite an aura about her and may make him uncomfortable, but, I mean, did it occur to you in your thoughts that it was more about her than about him at any point? I mean, I don't know.
 Well yeah, I mean, and that's important, like, as a warning, like, there seems a little, the whole thing seems according to your intuition sort of a warning signal like what's going on here? (16:01)
 However, you're, the way it made you feel was, at the time, seem like much more than just a warning signal. It set off first self-blame and then all these negative memories and you were really paying attention to it.
 But it sounds like they were pretty heavy and that if you hadn't been aware that that was what was going on you might have just felt, like, bad for the rest of the day and not even, I don't know.
 And not even realized, you know, why or what it was about.
 It sounds like a really upsetting...
 Was that helpful? Did you get in touch with anybody?
 Did you wind up talking to anybody? (19:59)
 How was that? What was that like to talk, you know, be able to talk to someone close to you?
 Well, that's something to keep in mind that, like, what things seem to make it feel, make it easier for you when you go through a cycle like that or something is set off, sad memories.
 Well, but I'm wondering if there is still because I'm wondering how you feel about it now, talking about it now.
 That sounds like a little. So tell me about this party that the, oh honey get a tougher skin. (22:02)
 Yeah, your voice just totally changed now when you were saying that, hey she couldn't do that to me.
 I mean, your vocal quality because even when you said before, honey, get a tougher skin. It didn't sound like you really meant it.
 Oh that's interesting, okay. Well that makes sense because we have talked about these like self attacks that you, these numbers that you do on yourself, like, oh I've said something, maybe I said something wrong last week. You know, I brought this on myself. It didn't really sound like it from the situation. Oh I see. So, that's why you can't really say, honey, like get a tougher skin and mean it. You want to be...
 I see, okay.
 Maybe we can rephrase it then instead of, honey get a tougher skin, maybe we can think of another way. Like, can you think of another way of saying it that would be less harsh? Something like, you know.
 Yeah, or try when I'm coming time for me to something like try not to let things get to you so much and it'll be easier. Something like that. Something that you can say to yourself that won't sound as harsh, but would be the same sort of thing like or you know, help protecting yourself, but with a less harsh tone to it because that doesn't have to be a punitive idea because it actually leads into the next thing, which you said which was she can't do that to me. I mean that's sort of the same idea. Like, okay I have something upsetting there to change, but she can't do that to me.
 At what point did that seem to kick back in? Right during the whole thing? Were you aware of that?
 So what does it feel like to try out that kind of a response instead of sort of being like okay or whatever you said?
 (overlapping) Hey, you know, thanks, but I'm waiting for Janice.
 You didn't sound, say that again. I'm standing my ground.
 See because even just saying that now I don't hear it fully. Like that sounded sort of shaky and then you're like rephrasing it. Can you say that again?
 No, just say I'm standing my ground. How about trying again? (27:56)
 Because that sounds more, when you first said it, it didn't sound like you were really were standing your ground, but that does. And so how does that feel?
 No, but what's the emotion like the...
 It's so interesting because I'm thinking that the way that you sort of phrase things is as if it would be harsh to say something like that. Like that's not a harsh thing. It's really not a harsh thing to say.
 Yeah, I wanted to leave us some time to talk about some other stuff. So yeah why don't...
 So, what would have been like the first thing that would come into your mind to say to that lady? (29:56)
 Were you aware of that at the time?
 Okay, so I can see where this whole, okay, but that's probably what was really underneath, right.
 Back off, bitch.
 Also it's a whole, so that's another layer that's beneath it, like, of being in a tight, you know, it ties in with what you're saying about your family and growing up. That's one of the things that keeps you back from being more genuine and just responding and holding your ground.
 I can imagine.
 Is he your nephew?
 What does she do, the niece?
 That's how 12-year-old boys talk, right.
 Did you say sorry to him?
 So, on the one hand I'm hearing that you had a tougher skin. That you sort of took in the information and stood your ground and, you know, that you did it at the same time. That's also mixed in with your not really being allowed to have a voice.
 So, you know, on the one hand, you know, there's this very positive side to it and then there's the other side where, you know, it sounds like this experience that you're describing a lot of situations of feeling like no matter what you say, it's not going to have really an impact or you're not able to change what...
 So, it sounds like there's a lot of different, like, rules and things that go into how you're reacting to people when you're, you know, feeling like they're steamrolling you or hurting you or something. And I'm thinking about what would it be like for you to just try to stay in more genuine.
 So, we know that when you said about hi, my name is Jane, now this has come up before in our meetings and your name came out all sort of swallowed and soft. And there it just sounded more even and strong when you said your name.
 Oh, okay, well it shows.
 What's never going to change?
 Yeah we were talking about that last week about how once you realized how things have sort of gotten smaller and that you were ready to, you know expand.
 That was another thing that you got in touch with over this weekend was the underlying feelings of loneliness and...
 But I mean it started out with that, this past weekend or not more than usual? (41:44)
 But it is something that we've talked about here, you know, last week. And talking about connection and genuine, being genuine. I'm wondering about how you feel in here as far as being genuine and being connected?
 Oh, and what's helping Jim (ph) to be genuine or really trying to maintain a sense of connection in here with me? (44:01)
 What's your feeling of being like more, because you're saying that your, before that it's hard for you to stay genuine and with others in the world in your interactions like?
 Okay, so it's more in these situations where you feel like you're being sort of attacked or like with the woman...
 Or judged?
 Or with your brother saying...
 It's just that these are the topics we've been talking about today, so that's what was on my mind that, you know, about your brother and about the farmer's market. So those are what I was thinking about.
 Because I'm feeling like I really pushed a button.
 Because like right now I did feel like you were upset with me for, on some level, that I hadn't understood that you didn't feel that way in a lot of other, you know, that you felt genuine in other situations...
 It's like I sort of felt like...
 Right, I know and then I felt like, I mean, I felt like oh, okay, you know. I felt like you are upset that I hadn't really understood that you didn't mean that you don't feel that way in all situations.
 And then we can like talk about it. (47:56)
 Well, I also see it sort of as a continuum and I think probably very few people are totally genuine very much of the time. I see it more like a continuum. And that people are constantly striving to stay in touch with what's more genuine and stay there. So, when I said it, I was thinking of it more in that sense, but then seeing your reaction and then, it was so interesting because then seeing that okay, so maybe I made a mistake. But then seeing that you, you know, maybe I misunderstood, but then seeing that in fact it was provoking some thought and the reason why it was like, but no, you know, the fact that I didn't understand seemed like a problem had to do with maybe I did understand at some level. And, you know, that that then would lead to examining. (40:31)
 Before we wrap up, even though we're a couple of minutes late. I just wanted to know what did it feel like for you that maybe I didn't understand and I had touched on a nerve and I didn't really understand the situation that you don't feel like you're not genuine in a general sense?
 That's like the intellectual, what about the feeling? What was the feeling when you felt like I had said something that was sort of off base? (51:57)
 Was it like shock or sort of a...
 So, like wanting me to understand better than that.
 So, it led to this whole examination of how much of that's true and not true.
 And I think it's interesting because it brings up, like, what feeling like understood or feeling not quite understood is like and you need to talk about it. So I think, you know, I think it's brought up some interesting...
 Right, like right on the spot being able to react and it also has to do with genuineness because that feels very genuine for me to be able to say, okay well, you know, let's look at this, you know, what happened just now. Let's talk about what really your experience is, you know, and who do I might think you are so. So, it's interesting being genuine and talking about genuineness. Okay. (53:58)
 A nutritionist.
 Um, I don't know. I don't know whether they have a ...
 To help you with your diet?
 I'm sorry, what happened?
 You said, "block"?
 Suzie.
 And they're a dramatic ...
 Artistic directors. 
 In the dream?
 Mmmm.
 Hmm. An interesting dream. 
 The searching for the script, searching for the right thing to say or the right way to be.
 You've got ... you've got an audition or you've got a rehearsal?
 And that's happening tonight?
 Steve Allen the comedian?
 Mmm hmm.
 Right. Right.
 Uh huh. Uh huh.
 Yeah, you're going real fast. I'm trying to catch up with you. 
 I was almost thinking of the Steve Allen and the Bogosian ... You're nervous now?
 So it's hard to sort of stay with the nervousness maybe, a little bit?
 Instead of want to like figure it out or know what it's about or ...
 Yeah. Yeah, because what would happen if ... if you felt it?
 No, wait, wait ... what would happen if you felt it? (both chuckle)
 Oh, great.
 (chuckles) Wait a minute ... Wait a minute ... what's THIS story? I mean is this story ... is it ... is it ...?
 Is it, though, also a way of avoiding the nervousness?
 If you tell the story?
 Oh, I'm not so sure about that, but go ahead.
 I don't know, you know, I mean, it's up to you, certainly. 
 So this is your panic (inaudible at 0:08:21 guy.
 (chuckles) I'm trying!
 Mmm hmm. But somehow, I ... you know, I think we're still ... we're still waiting to get on the train and we're waiting, because there's something about telling stories and this and that and talking that keeps you from ....
 I am pretty smart too, I know what it's about.
 That you can avoid the nervousness by talking? By talking about it? Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's the thing that you're worried about. You're afraid that that's going to happen. [0:10:18]
 Well I'm just ... you know, I'm having a hard time sort of ... keeping up. You're going very fast. 
 I don't know. 
 What do you mean?
 Well, I ... I know it's a little confusing in terms of what I'm ... what I'm sort of trying to point out here. But there's something about feeling like there's a lot of ... even talking about the nervousness seems to be almost a way of avoiding it. It feels that it's sort of frantic, it's like, "If I just keep talking, just keeping it forward, just keep telling stories, just keep relating what's going on in here to things that happened this weekend ..." you know, that seems to be just this running away from, just this real scary feeling of nervousness that you're afraid of. And, you know, I'm just wondering if it might not ... to try to get closer to the nervousness maybe you would find it useful just like ... I mean, you understand the principle of it - you've said it again and again. The experience is a little harder to get to. (inaudible at 0:12:50)
 Yeah, the experience, not so much talking about it, but the experience. Because there's a big difference between talking about your nervousness and really FEELING it.
 It's really familiar to you. (inaudible at 0:13:55) familiar.
 Yeah, yeah. 
 Well ... those are contradictions. "Should I try to figure out where it's coming from?" it's not going to let you feel it. And then, "Should I just get rid of it and relax?" Those two are very opposite crossing. 
 Right.
 Well you know it's my feeling that there's a lot of fear about feeling. There's a lot of fear about acknowledging nervousness, acknowledging vulnerability, you know, just... there's a lot of concerns about what that would feel like if people (inaudible at 0:15:20) concerns about yourself and your competence and ... so there's a lot of reasons to try and ...
 So, you know, there's ... that's ... I think all that stuff goes with why it's so difficult for you to experience. I think if you were a little bit more comfortable with your vulnerability, with your insecurity, it might not be so (inaudible at 0:15:50), it might not be so hard to feel it.
 And, you know, you might actually find that your insecurities and vulnerabilities are actually really, with time, they might become really important resources for your work (0:16 11).
 What made you make the connection to that?
 It's painful.
 I'm not sure I understand that ... the connection between that and your vulnerability.
 So it's just easier to fight through the insecurity?
 Do you have a sense of what's going on for you now?
 You seem to sort of just ...
 Yeah. You yawn and just look kind of ...
 ... tired look.
 So it can't be like ... well I don't think depression necessarily comes with accepting your vulnerability. But for you right now, it does)?
 Hmm. (inaudible at 0:18:47)
 Sounds like Forrest Gump or something (chuckling).
 Is that who you are?
 It was a good feeling?
 So what ... when you were feeling it in here a few minutes ago, what was that? (inaudible at 0:20:49) felt uncomfortable (inaudible).
 Yeah, that was really interesting! (chuckling) I kind of got distracted too. 
 So when you come in here, it's like, you know, a bit of ... performance.
 The expectation of doing something that I want you to do or ...
 But the entertaining part.
 It's that too in here.
 So there's some ... a sense of wanting to entertain me or to charm me or ...
 Right. Right. But I wonder how it plays out between us, you know, that - what would it be like to be yourself in front of me? What would I think? You know, would I get bored if I were to find out who you REALLY are or what you really feel or ...?
 I've got ...
 But you had the reaction to that, maybe my ... something that I hear or something about what I said that didn't sit right with you?
 And so it felt a little ... something I said felt a little ...
 I've gotten a real weird sense of today of us working of this funny kind of ...
 Well I think what ... well I'm not .. I'm not ... I'm not, really not trying to blame you. I'm sensing somehow that we're not sometimes working together. And I'm wondering ... you know, or have a sense of we're co-...
 It feels a bit ... it feels a bit like ... I don't know who's chasing whom, but I think perhaps I'm chasing you and trying to sort of say, "Let's run together" and feeling like ... that's hard right now. Because what happens in here is very particular to you and me, although I think it probably has some implications for what happens between you and Beth and you and your friends and you and your family. But I'm getting this, you know, I'm having a hard time sort of ... working with you in terms of understanding what's happening between us. Like you take the ball and you run with it. Take these things that I say and either blame yourself in it or just want to apply it to another story. And I'm feeling a little, I think, left out, like, "Hey, ..." Does that make any sense to you at all?
 Yeah? 
 Uh huh? Okay.
 I'm wondering if you have any other reactions to what I said.
 Uh huh. Are you just going to ... are you just ... I don't know, going to give me a break here or are you going to ... is there any other reaction you have? Does it not make sense?
 So what is it about us working together on (inaudible) [that you find] (ph) difficult? [0:26:09]
 Is it a bit like it's your show in here?
 (chuckling) And you don't want me to be in ...
 I want top billing there, you know?
 Yeah. Would it get kind of uncomfortable and [then what do you feel?] (ph)
 But, you know, on the other hand sort of running away from it, maybe you could like just keep at it and figure out what it is.
 So you always have to have a plan before you come in here? 
 Why don't you just let whatever happens happen?
 Well maybe this is a good place to start.
 Maybe you'll just keep driving us down here ...
 ... since we ... I'll be in the back seat.
 Why don't I drive? [0:28:06]
 (chuckling) Oh no ...
 Well I guess I'm driving a bit right now. 
 (chuckling) You don't like the road a chose? 
 It sounds like ... well I'm not sure. Can you say a little bit more about that?
 That I don't give suggestions.
 But I don't recall you ever really FIGHTING with me over the wheel. 
 Yeah. That's what's so difficult for me sometimes I think. That makes it hard for me to know "Wait, he just got the wheel. How did he get the wheel? (chuckling) He told that story. That's how he got the wheel. He distracted me. He said, 'Look out there' and he grabbed the wheel." You know, it would be different, I think, if you kind of just said, "You know, this IS what I'm feeling right now." Then I'd, you know ...
 Now why are you doing that now?
 Right, but I think this is kind of important, what you're saying. You know, I think you're telling me something important and I want to get it.
 I'm wondering if at those times when you're just ... you're just convincing yourself that I know BETTER what you're feeling than you do.
 But that would be sort of familiar to you, isn't it that ... you know, another step to defer to say this and not to trust yourself.
 Not to take the risk and say, "Hey, wait a minute, I think I know what's going on here" even to sort of get angry if I seem to be missing something you think is important that you really are feeling that that's who you are and what's going on. 
 I might not really be getting it.
 You rarely ...
 Yeah. I've ... but I think ...
 It seems to HAPPEN sometimes. 
 Well it would be so INTERESTING here! I don't KNOW what I'd say. I don't know. 
 Oh no! (laughs)
 Oh, I hate the way that sounds.
 Well maybe then you don't want any supervision (inaudible at 0:33:49) maybe ...
 Maybe I need a little direction from YOU. 
 No, I don't know why you have that impression (ph).
 Well I don't think that's it's MY fault. (chuckles)
 Yeah. Yeah. I've often felt that I have a lot of power that way that would make you doubt yourself.
 Um ... sometimes I probably do. But you know, I never like the consequences though. But I like to be right. Of course I like to be right, have you think I'm smart, know what I'm doing ...
 (chuckling) Yeah. (both chuckle)
 No, it's up to you, though, to assert yourself and tell me if I'm not getting it.
 And to have a choice.
 Yeah.
 All right. Now wait a minute. Boy, we tied that one up.
 Well it's hard. Change isn't ...
 To please him.
 He really doesn't have your best interests.
 Mmm hmm.
 And it's easy to do that. I mean, you do that, that's a pattern, right?
 Well to sort of sacrifice your own needs, what you feel is right and best for you, to please other people.
 Is there something about that (inaudible) kind of sad?
 So the concern still isn't the work, still in learning to believe in yourself [and that's hard] (ph) 
 And I sense that that brings up some ... I mean I ... I get the feeling that brings up some strong feelings in you (inaudible) the quest for some kind of self-acceptance and peace [of mind] (ph).
 And you didn't get that. [0:42:02]
 A lot of anger about not getting that.
 Is it?
 Wow. Looks like you got through to each other.
 [And you got through to her?] (ph)
 Hey, I'm not the one that had that conversation.
 What are you ...?
 You mean when you're on a train and it slows down that's when ...
 You're taking the danger out of that (inaudible at 0:47:10).
 I don't understand.
 Do you feel like your fear of riding the train or the panic that comes from it ... like horrible fantasy like that (inaudible)
 That something horrible would happen.
 Mmmm. Interesting. 
 Uh huh. Uh huh. Interesting to hear that. I'm glad it's worked out so well for you. 
 Yeah.
 And the satisfaction of being able to face up to the pain and have the courage to...
 What about tonight? Can you face up to that?
 Pain of failure?
 I guess it's the risk you're always taking ...
 Do you have the [yellow form] (ph)?
 Oh, so you paid it -
 Okay.
 So was a class - this was the Microeconomics?
 And that you got a better score than you did last time, but it was the worst score in your class? Is that what you're saying?
 One - oh okay.
 So let me ask you this, Marcus What makes you feel like you have to apologize? [2:24]
 Okay. Sure.
 We met four times?
 Okay.
 The test itself is $500.00?
 Okay. So let me - are those all the points you had? Your questions and points?
 I was asking if we had finished going down your list of points.
 Okay. Well Marcus, I wanted to say that I appreciate your bringing your concerns, you know, to me today. And whether or not you need to apologize for missing the last session or not, that's a non-issue. I definitely understand that, because you had that issue the week before, where you kind of battled with coming or not-and you decided to come.
 Sure. So - well no, I guess what I'm saying is I can understand how if you're feeling bad, you may not want to talk to anybody, see anybody. And that's definitely a sign of depression. So you don't need to apologize to me for that. [8:40]
To address the concern that you have of feeling as though that I don't care about you because I didn't get your test results to you-because I haven't. There was a period of time after the Thanksgiving appointment that you had called on a couple of - several occasions to try and make a new appointment, and I hadn't gotten back with you. And then this whole idea of not really being able to tell you what's wrong with you and moving ahead with a treatment plan for that. 
I want to say that it's not that I don't care about you and your situation, and that I don't want to help you, because I do. You know? This is why I tried to give you the suggestions that I had, and this is why I continue to make the appointments with you-because I am very concerned about your situation, and I do want to see the best outcome for you. Okay? 
So I tried to be empathic and listen to what you were bringing to the sessions. And, you know, trying to be compassionate and really hear you and those sorts of things. The initial session-the reason why I didn't share your test results with you or the questionnaire result is because in the initial - we've met four times and initial three sessions or so. 
The sessions are designed for me to gather information from you. And that's not just with you, but all the clients. The initial three sessions is a lot of information-gathering. You remember seeing me take notes and make sure I had things clear to get a bigger picture of what could be affecting what's going on with you today. Okay? 
So during the first three sessions is not typically a time where we share results or things like that. And then in the - I believe the third session or the fourth session, you began talking about some compulsive issues. So at that point, what I did was I extended the consultation from three sessions to until I got more information about this compulsive nature that you had-the addictive piece you talked about-the drinking and the reading, the - you know. And you thought that you had a compulsive nature about yourself. 
So at that point, what I did was I extended the consultation so I could get more information about that. And I had planned on hopefully wrapping it up in that appointment that you missed on - to get more information about that. Because then you mentioned something about relationship issues with your wife-was that something that you wanted to address. 
So before I could compile all the information that we talked about in the sessions and with the test results or the scores and things that you - the questionnaires you filled out. Before I could come up with a report and put all that together, I still needed more information from you. Okay? 
So it wasn't as though I was trying to - I wasn't involved-not hearing you and not concerned; it's just that I still needed more information to come up with some understanding of what could be going on-you know, with you-and whether or not it's depression or anxiety or whatever these things are. Okay? [11:51]
So I apologize if it's come across as though I'm not caring. And then with the issue about you calling me-I was in conference. I was in a training-a three- to four-day-long training, and could not get back with you. So the earliest that I could is when I did. Okay? So - and I didn't know you were calling Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday-because I wasn't here to receive the messages. I had only gotten messages, I think, on that Wednesday and then on Monday or the Tuesday when I was in conference. Okay? 
So when they called me on my cell phone is when I actually found out that you had been calling all that time. So it was not intention to frustrate you or to make you feel that way. Okay? But I can definitely understand. If I were in your shoes, and I know I had called all these times and hadn't heard back, I would have felt the same way. Okay? But know that that's not my intention. 
And as far as trying to figure out what's going on with you, I'm happy to hear that you're going to be able to get tested-because I can't test you to find out if you have ADHD or ADD or any of those things. And that's why I suggested for you to have the testing done, okay? And one additional thing I can do is have you reviewed by the psychiatrist who can determine maybe if you need medication for depression or to figure out if it's, you know, the hypomanic depressive or if you have a major depressive disorder. And the psychiatrist can evaluate you on that, okay? And decide if you need medication. Just depending on what the psychological tests reveal can determine if you need medication that can help you just concentrate more and help uplift your mood if, in fact, it is depression. 
Because that's exactly what I see. I see - in fact, I see (inaudible at 13:53) fairly (ph) the depression. What I see is the distemic (ph) disorder, and I see - that disorder has signs of depression. The sleepiness, the lethargic, the not - but then it also has this component of lack of concentration in studies and lack of concentration on tasks. And so I see some of that, as well. Okay? So lack of concentration could be [to the] (ph) depressive mood, but it could also be, like we said, contributing to this attention deficit disorder. And if you hadn't been diagnosed as a kid, okay? [14:33]
So then what I also see is maybe the culturation issues. You know, coming from your country to this country, there could be some adjustment issues going on. I'm not quite sure. But that's something to consider. Because here you are in a different type of classroom, a different type of setting.
 Okay, so you've lived all over and had to adjust. So that may not be an issue. Okay.
 Okay. Well just based on what we've talked about and what you've shared, I definitely see some of the depression and the distemia (ph). And there be some attention deficit. Then also there's this compulsive - and I didn't get enough information from you at our last session. I was going to follow up with you. I wanted to find out if there is some obsessive-compulsive type of things that go on that could also sometimes interfere with your being able to focus on certain tasks-or when you focus too much on some tasks than another.
So what's important now is that you get tested to rule out some of the more biological things that could be happening. We get you evaluated for medication to see if you would do better with some type of anti-depressant that could help lift your mood, and then maybe be able to concentrate more. You know, and be able to offer more of yourself to your wife-and that can improve your marital relationships. You know, those sorts of things. 
But then outside of that, Marcus, I definitely see some issues around relationships, just based on what you've described to me as far as part of your life history, right? This theme of lack of being able to pay attention and stay focused, you know, in your studies. It seems like there's a recurrent theme even in your relationships, when you describe the various relationships that you had been in. It's the same type of theme. 
And so while the medication is great and ruling some of the more biological things out, I still think that you would benefit from psychotherapy-from a psychodynamic approach-where you and the therapist can explore past history issues and how they have influenced your life and the choices and your behaviors and your interactions with others. But I think of your father -
 Huh?
 Yeah.
 Right. And so in combination with medication, I think traditional psychotherapy would benefit you-to explore maybe some unresolved issues from your childhood and past, and how that may be carrying over into the present situations-to the present issues that you're having. Okay? So that's my recommendation. 
Now as far as to address your concern about wanting to be transferred to a different therapist, I can definitely understand that given the way that you feel. I've enjoyed working with you. And up until that Thanksgiving-before the last time I saw you-it appeared as though things were going well and we had a healthy working alliance happening. And there was an obvious rupture between then and now. And so I can definitely understand if you were going to be transferred to another therapist. 
And actually, I was going to let you know today that some unexpected things have come up in my own life, where it has caused me to make the decision to no longer be here, actually. So I would have to transfer your case anyway. My last day here will be the 22nd of this month. And so, at that point - prior to that point, I'd like to transfer your case to a different therapist, if you want to continue here at the clinic. And then you would be able to resume, you know, the sessions with whomever (ph).
 Um-hm.
 I'm just taking - I need to do some things in my personal life to - you know, do some things. But I don't want to burden you with that, because you've got your own issues. (chuckles)
 Oh no, no. I'm just not going to be working in this capacity for now.
 Yeah. So that's - I was going to let you know that today. And so maybe it is probably a good time now that you're thinking about transferring your case anyway. Okay? So what are your thoughts on anything I said? What are you thinking?
 Yeah, it is.
 Yeah. And that's the thing-when you come in here for treatment, it would be nice if we can give you answers right away and fix you right away-and wave something over you and make it all better, but there is a process, right? I wish I could do something to make it all better (ph).
 I would have really enjoyed to continue to work with you. You know, definitely. I like you as a person, I like - I mean, you are really open and - as far as your treatment, you're willing. And those are all great things that make good therapy. So I will definitely find you a therapist that is definitely suited for you and willing to help you in this journey.
 Okay? And what my hope is, is that maybe next week - I'm in the program this week, and the next week I'll be trying to find - or trying to hook up with the therapist who is going to take over my place with you. But I'd like to introduce the two of you. And so maybe we'll set up a session before I leave, for you to sit down with that person. And you guys can come up with - you know, meet each other and then come up with a schedule. 
The clinic is actually closed the week of Christmas. There's a break here, and - the Christmas holiday break. And so sessions - the clinic won't open until after the new year. So there will be at least two weeks that the clinic won't be open. So you'll probably - so you'll begin the sessions with a new therapist after the first of the year.
So are you interested in being seen by the psychiatrist to get evaluated for medication? Are you willing to -
 Oh no. Well no, the psychiatrist - like even if the - once the psychological testing comes back, and if it says that you do have attention deficit, right? The psychiatrist is the only one who can prescribe medication. So like a social worker such as myself, even if I see the symptoms, I can't prescribe medication. A psychologist who may have - do talk therapy cannot prescribe medication.
 Yeah, so here in the States, only the psychiatrist can prescribe medication. So for the depression, for the concentration-you know, they'll just evaluate you to see if you're suitable for the medication. And then they will be the ones to say, "Okay, here's this anti-depressant. Take so-and-so many milligrams per day." And then they will review it. So they will be the ones that you go to here in the clinic. They'll have a review every so often and review how the medication is going-if you notice a difference, if it's worsening, if it's better.
 It very well could. I mean, because what you're talking about - the concern is, is that the talk therapy isn't moving quick enough to change anything, right? And so if it's depression or if it's attention deficit, then you can have better concentration, or you can have more of an uplifted mood if you're on medication. And the talk therapy can help you resolve some of the things that are underneath. But at least you will be able to concentrate in your studies. At least you'd be able to have more of a less depressed mood. 
And so the medication can help you with some stability, while the talk therapy is helping you with the long-term changes and resolving some of the things from the past. So just talking about the things, now at this point, is not going be able to help you have immediate concentration increase. So it may be better to be on some medication at this point.
 Well the psychiatrist can better tell you what medication would be more suitable.
 What you do is when you leave here-just like you did with the psychological testing-you talk with the person up front and say that you would like to see the psychiatrist for psychiatric evaluation, and they'll schedule for one. And what I do is that I write up a little synopsis of your case for the psychiatrist, and let him know why you're seeking a psychiatric evaluation. 
So I'll put in there, "Client is having a difficult time concentrating on his studies. He's noticed he's had this problem since early childhood, but was never tested, so there's a chance that it could be attention deficit disorder. Client has been experiencing mood swings and depressive mood; loss of sleep and change in appetite." You know, those sorts of things. "So can you please evaluate him for depression/attention deficit, and see if medication - " [26:13]
 You know what? I'm not quite sure.
 Yeah.
 Hopefully it won't. Hopefully it won't. I know we had two psychiatrists, and one psychiatrist is leaving; so I'm not sure what that does for the other one's case load. But [Michael Verbatim] (ph) would know much better-how long a wait it will be.
 Okay. How many people are in front of you?
 It's been four weeks since you -
 Three?
 Okay.
 And I'm not sure even if you could go somewhere else for the testing, where you're [not going to wait.] (ph) But I'm not sure how the cost -
 Right. And so if you went, I'm not sure if it would be cheaper somewhere else. But it's worth exploring. And I asked - he wasn't able to tell me exactly. I thought he said maybe a month waiting list, but he wasn't able to tell me an exact date when you'll be able to be seen. So hopefully it won't be too much longer.
 Right. So hopefully I'll know definitely who that will be so we can set up the same time for next week. And once I find out if that person has a different schedule-like for instance, if you're not here now, then I may call you to rearrange an appointment that fits their schedule as well.
 Right. Because the options that we do have - if you wanted to meet - either meet the therapist next week and have them come for the first part of the session, [we could continue to talk] (ph). And then we can meet one more time, if you wanted to, and then wait till the new year-or even if you're (inaudible at 28:33) to the new year-if you think you'll still need to maybe talk with somebody before the holiday. You know, I'm available [still on] (ph) the 22nd, so (inaudible at 28:45). But you know, next week could be our last session, if that would work-if that would be better for you.
 It depends on whatever you have-you know, about half an hour?
 Huh?
 Well in sessions, it's planned usually. So whatever comes to you-whatever comes to your mind.
 It depends on - I mean, let me ask you this. How do you feel and what do you think about us changing, or me no longer being your therapist and getting a new therapist. How do you experience that?
 Sure. You don't need to apologize for that. That's great that you did. And I think that's a great strength, I guess, that you would have-is to be assertive. And that's a part of taking care of yourself, right? And so if you have some feelings or you feel a certain way, to address those-to maybe identify them first. Identify them that - "Hey, I'm feeling this way." 
And the assertive part about it is to take it to the person that you feel is causing you to feel that way, and to try and resolve it. Right? So it makes sense, and it's a great idea that you wrote everything down and that you came here today prepared to discuss those things.
 Okay. What's your suggestion?
 So let me ask you this. What happened with your last therapist, who was a woman, that would make you come to the conclusion that maybe it's time to have - it would be better to have a man therapist?
 You think a man - you can be more honest with a man-is more honest. [32:11]
 Okay. So you felt more relaxed with a male therapist?
 Okay. So let me ask you this. When you think about your work with me and you think about your work with your last therapist who was a woman, do you think you have any issues with working with women?
 No?
 Competent?
 Do you think a man would be more academic than myself?
 Oh yeah, that makes sense.
 If you had a male therapist -
 Did you put that on your - or did you request -
 Okay. Well when I put in the information, I'll definitely put that in there-that you prefer a male therapist; and see how many of the men respond.
 Okay. So ideally, you'd like a male therapist; but if it doesn't work out to have a man -
 Sure. Okay.
 That a woman will try and impress you, or you try and impress the woman therapist?
 That you're some type of status, or the therapist is some type of status?
 Sure, definitely. I can see how that - especially coming - I mean, when you talk about even your own culture-the way you described -
 Okay. Well that's something to definitely explore, because you want to - like I said, in the initial session that we ever had, it's like the - in order to get the maximum benefit out of your treatments about having a good fit with the person that you're working with-having a good fit with your therapist. [37:55]
And so if you can't be as open or as relaxed with a woman therapist because of the barriers there, then-it's your therapy. You're paying for it, right? Just pay that big of (inaudible) money today. So you need to - it's okay to explore other options if it's going to help you be more relaxed or be able to be more open than you would under a different scenario. So I'll definitely put that in. Hopefully, that will work out, and you'll see - and you'll be able to experience the difference.
 Well, it depends on what you mean by "how it works."
 Well basically, therapy is - there's different approaches to the type of therapy offered. You know, there's psychodynamic therapy, there's cognitive behavioral therapy, you know? And with psychodynamic therapy, it's basically you come in here, you sit down, and you begin to talk. Okay? And it's the therapist's responsibility to listen to you. But as we're listening, we're listening to themes that you may present; we're listening to - maybe we're connecting the past with the present in order to get you to see how to change the future. All right?
 The TV time?
 Yeah, it's that, you know -
 Yeah. And then you just kind of repeat back some of the things that you're saying. Like how we talked about-they validate your feelings, they help you see connections in your life. Like today when I said, "I see this theme of lack of concentration-not only in your studies, but based on what you told me, you know? I see it in your relationships-your past relationships as well. What could this be about?" And if we to go further with that, I would ask you, "What do you think that's about? Do you see the same theme here? And what is that about?" [40:32]
Or when we talk about your father and your relationship with your father, and how you saw him. What parts of your father do you see in yourself? We talk about unresolved issues. How did you really feel about your mom and your dad's separation? You know? Because you never really expressed those feelings around that-and how is that carrying over into your own relationships into your life today? You know? 
Growing up in a time of war as a child, and really always focusing on the positive. Like the bonfires that you guys would have; although around you, the reality was that there was no electricity, no heat; and people probably fearful of their lives or whatever. But as a kid, you couldn't pay attention to those things. You focused on the positive things, right? And even the moving-your family moving from Brazil to Portugal was it?
 Right. You know, it wasn't about the separation you were dealing with or were coping with, it was thinking about, "Oh Portugal-I can get lots more toys," and those sorts of things. So what happens to a child that really doesn't cope with or ever deal with the reality of loss and movement and separation in family or war? And where does all that go? And your unconscious mind is processing that, although you may not have ever done it on a conscious level. 
So sometimes what's not dealt with unconsciously, it comes out in our behavior some kind of way sooner or later, or down the line, okay? So therapy helps you kind of piece those things together. You know, maybe what made you have experienced unconsciously and how it's affecting the things that you do on a conscious basis-in your relationships, at school, at work, how you feel about yourself, how you see the world - and how those things may have affected your present symptoms and behaviors.
 Right. When you're able to make the connections with past and present, then there is some resolution that you come up with in your own mind. Right? Once you realize, "Okay, this thing today really isn't about today; it's really about something that may have happened when I was a little kid." You know? Then you can put that energy somewhere else. And so the therapy is about trying to rework those things, pull those things together, and make the connections. [43:25]
 So instead of dealing with that, you're going to put it to the side.
 Sure. And if it's anxiety that you're experiencing - I've never use that term before. But if it is anxiety that you're feeling, then maybe a combination of this going back over past stuff would help you in combination with more of the cognitive behavioral approach, where they give you specific strategies on how to tackle and confront anxieties.
 It's interesting because you said there was a difference when you went to school initially. And then when you went to a school in Portugal-
 Right. Because it was more demanding and expectations were higher?
 And so it could be when expectations are higher and the demands are greater, that you experience more anxiety than you do when those things are lower? And so maybe it is that you don't have the tools, but maybe you have developed some tools; because you've been able to be successful at work, right? In accomplishing certain things at work?
 So there are some scenarios where you can maintain focus and maintain attention; whereas when the demands are greater and higher that you can't access those tools?
 You never read it. And so here, when you're trying to get this degree, and even (inaudible) degree, required a lot of reading. And so if you're not accustomed to reading a lot, it can become overwhelming, and you can have anxiety about it, and not even want to do it at all.
 Well that's some useful information. If you didn't have the tools as a kid, then how do you access those things (inaudible) adult, since you were never taught or ever shown or [had someone] (ph) model for you.
 Well if you're able - but the thing that you told me, you were able to read these other books-the fiction books and the science fiction books. And you mentioned the one series the last time we met, you would stay up all night reading these books. Was it Harry Potter? It wasn't Harry Potter. Was it Harry Potter?
 You mentioned there was a series of books that you stayed up - and when you were talking about the compulsive nature that you had, you talked about one particular series that you would stay up all night reading till you finished it.
 Okay. But the fact that you can read lengthy books and things like that when you want to, right-or when you choose to-is a sign that you have a capacity to read other materials.
 So I mean, so you can read and you can -
 Yeah, I mean [it's your around] (ph) reading, I think it's the expectation and the demands that may cause you anxiety. [Unless to say] (ph) like being in that school in Portugal then being sent here, knowing that your company sent you-and what would it look like if you returned back home? Would you be a failure? You know, here you are, you're [with them] (ph), wanted them for your school-and you have all these other smart folks around you. And you're not the same star that you were back in your country. And you're afraid the same thing may happen that happened in Portugal. [52:26]
So with those things in the background, why wouldn't someone be anxious about an exam or about material or whatever the case is? If you have this huge - you know, it's kind of like even an example - and we have to begin wrapping up. But like - you know, like a person - the people who have to disbomb bombs? You know - I forget what they call them, but if a building even called, the bomb squad comes in, right? And it's one person who has to realize-figure out which wires to disconnect. And you see the clock-it's ticking and it's down to three seconds or whatever, and you've got to figure out which wire to pull. 
And they know that if they don't get the - if they don't pull the right cord, the whole building-the whole city's going to be bombed and everything. That's a lot of pressure, right? And so that can be - if that person had so much anxiety at that point to say, "Uh, I can't do this." You know - whereas the bomb trainers-thankfully, they're not like that, you know? They can think under pressure and put that anxiety aside and not think about all of this stuff when they're doing that, right? So if you have all this pressure behind you, in the background, when you take a test or you sit down and read something, that can affect your performance as well.
 Yeah, except what you're reading. And like I said, this stuff is unconscious. It's not necessarily when you sit down reading a book that you're thinking about your brother, and you're thinking about what your mom said to you.
 What's that?
 What's that?
 Right. And so where you start -
 Yeah, so it can be a combination of things, Agusto. But like your wife told you, it's about - there is no quick fix to this, right? Although we all would like to have a quick fix. It is important that you are patient with the process and that you continue to be open with the process. I have some great help available here to you, and I want you to be able to get that help that you need. [55:27]
 Sure. Because you're willing and you want to improve. And that's the first, most important step. But if there's a part of you that's comfortable with - that's something you have to ask something too. Is there a part of me that's comfortable with being depressed? Is there a part of me that me that's comfortable being - you know, not having concentration and that sort of thing? Because then you have to figure out what that could be about-because that's something that can hinder your progress as well. But if you -
 What's good to hear?
 Sure. Definitely. And don't give up on the therapy and don't give up on yourself.
 Okay? So I'm going to be working tomorrow and the end of this week trying to find you someone who can help you.
 But no, it's a great suggestion. So maybe will be something I can help you, okay? But - I meant to ask you-what is your phone number?
 What's your home number?
 You don't know your home number?
 So we'll meet the same time next week, at 4:00 next Thursday. 
 Client 1922-038. This is Client 1922-038. This is Session Number 1, Session Number 1. 
Okay. I don't even know what your last name is so I  - 
 Bradley. I guess when you came and talked to Eric he told you about the research and stuff.
 Yeah. (Inaudible at 0:00:49.9) 20 sessions.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. I was thinking about that, because when I talked to you earlier [at the big nursing department] (ph) expected to come once a week. Would this work? Could you just pay $10 a week now and then, you know, $10 a week until you finish?
 Okay. Okay. All right. There isn't any particular or right place to start. I think it's better to (inaudible at 0:01:36.2).
 Yes.
 Yeah. 
 Do you mean that you're lonely and don't have as many friends as you really want (inaudible at 0:03:10.6).
 Yeah.
 Well, to feel satisfied.
 You're having trouble relating especially to men.
 And you want maybe something like quality relationships?
 Almost as if you're lost and going through [a set of] (ph) emotions.
 And you're avoiding this.
 Again, (inaudible at 0:06:05.4) maybe you are empty because the things you should be doing, like you're not doing them, and so you're not involved in what you really should be involved in.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible at 0:07:13.7) 
(Crosstalk)
 Yeah.
 Yeah, like you don't believe it, in a sense.
 In a way that would do you any good anyway.
 When you let (ph) something do you feel like what you're saying is - like it would stupid in a way? And if you're meeting a person you don't feel like you're making them like you?
 Yes. 
 That was when you were really a long time being subconscious and careful and sort of testing out what you do as (inaudible at 0:09:44.5).
 Yeah.
 (Inaudible at 0:11:18.5)?
 Oh, wow. Are you cutting down now?
 Yeah, very painful of  - 
 I don't know if I, you know, understood it fully but what comes to my mind about what you said is that - like sort of being forced to look at yourself and not hating what you see or something.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Okay. I guess what happens is that you get - the farther away from your experience in life, the more abstract it gets. So you more what (ph) - to feel less and less real and you start feeling less real, and then that gets scary because you're not from part (ph) real life.
 It isn't going back though, I mean that's - when you say (inaudible at 0:15:08.9) I guess another (inaudible at 0:15:12.2) that this to be more clear about what you're feeling and to feel more. 
 You have more ups and downs and more queer, distinct feelings that - you know, that you know what you're feeling.
 Yeah. I guess that must be another way that you don't feel quite in touch with your feelings or that like you don't know how to look cool. You don't know how to take the feeling that you have, other than take it as a serious and justifiable foray (ph), sort of irrational (inaudible at 0:16:35.8) as opposed to being shoved off in the corner.
 I think that happens to me too; that your - generally all of our (inaudible at 0:18:34.9) and I was sort of, you know, feeling the energetic or...
 Yes.
 So you get into a spiral.
 Yeah. But (inaudible at 0:19:25.1) the trouble with what I'm saying is how you react to the first time you eat something you shouldn't.
 Like your own reaction to it makes it all worse than like  - 
 Makes you feel sometimes disgusted with yourself?
 And somehow you can't respect yourself and you can't - almost like you can't paste (ph) yourself if you can't do what you decide to do.
 And I guess also I'm getting this slant (ph) and drifting and...
 Hmm. I don't think I quite understand that, Mary. It's just (inaudible at 0:21:33.6) like the more you were (inaudible at 0:21:37.1).
 (Inaudible at 0:21:50.2).
 Or just a waiting (ph)?
 Is it that you get so upset with how you're not doing it that you haven't gotten any strength left over to get into discussions? Is that it?
 Um-hmm.
 Right, yeah. You want to be able to do something that doesn't involve you and is challenging you, and it would - just routine that you can take care of.
 Yes. Well, like when you're sitting down in the chair and starting to think about writing a paper, like, do you have a moment of anxiety before you think of an excuse?
 I'm not lying to you and referring to (inaudible at 0:25:51.8) taking a position which (crosstalk).
 It's just that you're aware of all the little things that, either way, that you'd like to say.
 And so you can't say it, just say it like...
 Yeah. Because not to be able to act seems like abject (ph) - an off grade (ph) what a person should be to... And I guess that wasn't right.
 Yeah. Just that you're not engaged in something meaningful.
 Yeah.
 Perhaps also you just get tired of trying and trusting (ph) within yourself and not being able to be...
 It just gets to the point where you just get so tired of it that, you know, you'd really like to fall (ph).
 But it's like you can't even say, well, you want to commit suicide because it looks like  - 
 And then you see all of the things that go against it.
 Even though the time is starting to (inaudible at 0:31:10.9).
 Um-hmm. You know, (inaudible at 0:32:14.1) well, if there's something wrong with me and that can probably be fixed.
 I half expect that (inaudible at 0:33:13.6) that you badly want to be really living.
 That you could so easily waste yourself.
 Yeah. Partly because you can't - there's nothing you can do that's at all helpful or constructive and you were kind of (crosstalk).
 Yeah.
 So it's like you've got all of these sort of inhibitions or rules or something to overcome to be anything genuine and it's like you'll have to acknowledge.
 The rules of the game like - and are really big crust (ph).
 So the whole thing was forced onto me (inaudible at 0:38:17.6) two or three years now. I received these letters from my grandmother. {Even though] I have different rules (ph) she's not supposed to know that I know about how my parents are and I'm not supposed to know how much she disrespects them on this, this sort of thing. 
And she sent me this letter saying that - I guess my mother had started drinking again and it was my fault. I had called up on the phone and realized that she was drunk and then something happened. I guess I couldn't deal with it and I started to cry, and then which made my mother very upset and she was upset about telling me. It's like I don't love her, I can't accept her anyway, which is true. 
I get so incredibly tired when that happens and always we just had a hang-up; it was the mother saying that it's my fault that you're into this, on and on, and again, I got really tired (ph) and I started crying and crying and crying, and which I hadn't cried since I was in third grade and I decided not to cry any more because I hadn't cried and had these really embarrassing times to let - to have been so emotional in school. So I just gave it up, not going to do it again, so I just didn't until this time. So it was a really amazing thing for me to adopt and it just brought [her down] (ph) and I find the easiest thing to do is (inaudible at 0:39:53.0) don't have to go through all these emotional experiences. 
 Yeah.
 Yeah. You're not a good mother.
 Why couldn't I have a real mother?
 And it's one thing to be able to understand someone who (inaudible at 0:42:34.0) just stop picking at a time (inaudible at 0:42:38.1).
 Interests so many years; like it's been important to keep as much of the fa�ade as possible.
 Yeah.
 Because you want them to be proud of you for being strong or...
 About having that - you should be open with your parents and be (ph) some kind of weakness.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah. It's as if your cheerfulness with each other is, you know, sort of like (inaudible at 0:48:43.6) it's all right and then (inaudible at 0:48:50.7). I don't know, (inaudible at 0:49:23.4) pain that's more than either of you (inaudible at 0:49:27.5).
 I see.
 Yeah. But it won't be - it would be peculiar, difficult thing to do too, to try and talk to him too.
 It's easier now (ph) to reject  - 
 That must be so strange after being that sort of strong, capable child and adolescent to, all of a sudden, end up change over.
 Yes.
 I don't know, it must be frightening to feel weak and incompetent; looks like your parents.
 (Inaudible at 0:53:24.4) for today.
 I guess on Wednesday.
 Why don't you just bring in $10 and a check on Wednesdays (inaudible at 0:53:47.7). See you.
 Something you'd like to say.
 Don't do right. I keep sensing like well, okay, if I do it well here, then I'm not going to do it well here. I'm going to flub it in the aftermath if I don't flub in the beginning. [2:34]
 Someone there came up to you and said boy, that was really good, and you really hit these parts strong and I like that, then what would you want to say?
 So to keep it moving.
 Rather than have it stop, right, that's it.
 Yeah, so I think I approach it now like as somebody who cut it off and stopped it finally, responded in other ways, and might have started thinking more or started feeling more and then going out sort of alive, doing something, rather than  -
 - going on performance. [4:56]
 You know so that's not like feeling like I wanted to show genuine interest in meeting these people who came up and really having something going with them at that point.
 And you felt like that was - somehow you just couldn't do it I think.
 so you feel very good about how it went and not so good about, you know, the ending of it; just wasn't that good and didn't do the whole thing the way I'd like to.
 Maybe they don't want to hear that.
 So it wasn't making sense to them.
 It sounds like one thing he feels is very comfortable is when people say they liked him. He thought it was good. And then he would just go on from there kind of thing, but that doesn't bother him, it doesn't get in his way, and you would think somehow maybe that triggered off something. [11:48]
 (Inaudible at 13:25). I felt I wanted to do something for them anyway, affirm them.
 And they're saying what they got somewhere and how they're feeling about it and how they're feeling about being there, and you are somehow catching a hold of that, let them know you heard it.
 I'm switching (ph) at it because I keep hearing you say that it's very, very hard to hear - what did I hear you say - how much they liked it.
 (Almost like you're saying oh don't (inaudible at 17:13) me, don't  -
 It's just always hanging up there.
 And you've succeeded to your next step, and God, it's dangerous on the way up to the next step.
 And then it pushed me back on me I'm really good.
 That feeling that I am pushing to my own destruction -
 - and I'll make the top. If I keep on like this, I could make the top and then there's no place to go but the bottom.[20:03]
 And that's the real question.
 If you take that their compliments then by saying okay, I accept that and that means I can't fail because you feel exactly the opposite of circumstance and (inaudible at 21:07).
 And aren't very likely to - you'd rather not take it.
 Never be satisfied.
 So that sounds almost like with death you start all over again. You go all the way down to the bottom like a clean slate kind of thing. [25:30]
 So seeing it as an end without insult (ph0 that's just life kind of thing. But back to your problem, I could say that's the ultimate failure not to be able to live any more.
 Yes. It's like - well, turns out it's like there's a constant drive of trying to overcome - anyway, trying to overcome the effects of death and the feeling process by contently trying to be something that (inaudible at 28:20). Yeah. Well, at certain times like, you know, a non-acceptance of God too.
 And I do not accept the fact that I'm going to die some day.
 Okay, I accept the fact, but I don't want it. I wish I didn't have to.
 Yeah, you're feeling very helpless as well.
 So there's another part of it too, the part that keeps saying that it's going to come on top of my success some day, it's going to take away my success and my ending -
 (Inaudible at 30:29).
 And I perceive I have to be punished  -
 Yeah, and these are all parts of me and I'm going to have to live with them and I may not be able to live with them.
 I know what handling means in terms of controlling, managing  -
 Or how can we (inaudible at 34:18)
 A part of that success is (inaudible at 35:10).
 Including you. [36:55]
 It's sounding like the I'm okay theory.
 (Inaudible at 36:56) All of this is okay.
 It's hard then to say, well, I really appreciate the fact that it brought a tear to your eye, coming from you.
 You just close them out. Sounds like (inaudible at 38:45) is something that being able to say something from you at that point, like thank you, I appreciate that, would be a very simple and - it would be expressing your appreciation for (inaudible at 38:57) the fact that they did hear you. [39:01]
 To get it over.
 Now you cursed yourself.
 But you had to take that one.
 Yes, by you doing the punishment.
 Yeah, (inaudible at 43:00)
 It feels pretty violent (ph).
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Well, actually I believe in that, yeah.
 Right, because you're sure there's going to be one.
 Hold on to it.
 Sort of keep that feeling.
 Okay.
 Oh, a video machine?
 I didn't know you had (inaudible)
 Yeah, I've (inaudible) sort of disgusted like you knew you wanted that all along and here it is too late and how come you did that to yourself (inaudible). 
 Impossible thing
 You have to remind me of that (inaudible) some music that I know where it's very...it's got very, very tricky rhythm and it's very chancy whether the musicians will come out together and the recording I have of it, they do come out together and you hear them laugh just when they leave but many times they play it and it doesn't happen that way and it kind of came to my mind, like once in a while you make a coup and you...it really is brilliant and all together but so many times, I mean, it looks like...almost like you were saying a minute ago, oh, my life is just set up in this self defeating way or at least, the part of me that has to do things. 00:10:28
 It was like that.
 Something frightening for you about feeling that's the...is there some feeling like well, that's the only way I get to function at all...when the pressure gets so bad, the outside pressure, that I just have to do that or I'll sink. But other than that you...
 (overlapping voices) by tomorrow. Yeah. 
 This...one reason or one thing that strikes me about that and it may be because I've been recently in the business of trying to work out schedules for myself and I've tried setting up different times that I...I realize some times aren't good to set up because I just fail at them...I mean, I now know you don't set up...I don't set up this time for myself...I was wondering if part of it felt like, well, when you did make attempts to plan, they were unreal (inaudible) Gold Diamond must have a word for that or there must be a concept with that. 
 I wouldn't know what it is. 
 No, I'm...the reason why I'm giggling was I started doing that after Christmas and I gave myself a check...or I wrote down everyday if I did anything extra...anything extra meaning doing the wash, (inaudible), you know, it's ridiculous things and I was just laughing at myself. But it really helped for those first couple of days.
 Yeah. 
 I had arrived without knowing...I don't...I never...I don't know Gold Diamond but I had sort of arrived by trial and error at this business...like I was setting up things I couldn't do and what I needed to do was set up these little itsy things that were almost so stupid but I knew I could accomplish them and I would permit myself to feel good about it. 
 Yeah. At the end of the day I'd cross them off. I had a little pad and I picked it so I knew I could accomplish something and then I also wrote down anything I did extra and I laughed every two seconds but it seemed to be helpful for those first couple of days because I thought, god, I've got to get this done by the end of January and I'm frightened I can't do (inaudible) for two years and.... It doesn't always help but it's like, I think one principle for me was when I get this horribly overwhelming anxiety, I have to...I get real minute and I don't know whether that would be helpful but it...just the notion like I am setting it up so I will get reinforcement (overlapping voices) 
 Oh, so by the time you get around to making up the list, you can't do it the way we're talking about?
 (overlapping voices) hard
 And that sort of sounds sort of funny but there's something really awful about it too. It sounds like to be carrying around that letter (inaudible)
 Even if actually the task itself is small, it's like you're so...there's so much of a psychological wall that's built up or something like that. 
 And you ask yourself, or at least I ask myself (inaudible), what is it about this that I find so awful. Like sometimes it's clear to me...if I don't' want to call somebody on the phone because I'm going to have to do something unpleasant; sometimes the unpleasantness is really clear but other times I (inaudible) just don't get it. You know? 
 If all you're concerned about how you're going to come across, you end up really just sort of flung yourself on paper. 
 I guess one thing that I get out of hearing this is that okay, it's beginning to...the pattern that you (inaudible) that you're stuck in begins to get very clear and what's the matter with it is except that there doesn't seem to be any break in it to get started a new way. That's one thing. And the other thing...I thought I heard earlier was something like, although (ph) the only ways you can see or the ways...some of the ways that suggest themselves that would change things feel so foreign to you. They feel...I think you said something about handing a paper in early and that may have been slightly humorous but... 00:30:10
 Yeah, who's got time to get picky about it.
 You didn't even have to look at it. 
 Yeah. I was wondering (inaudible) maybe this is just some little (inaudible) connection in my mind or something, but it struck me like that's something that needs to...how would I put it? If you get...if you really did start two weeks in advance, it sounded almost like you were saying maybe I would spend so much time worrying about being perfect and every thing like that that I'd end up in almost the same state that I am when it's the day before it's due. I mean there'd be something....maybe it wouldn't be a similar situation but I still wouldn't get it done. I'm not sure about that. In some ways it sounds very different but at least this way is shorter; the one where you're (inaudible) I don't know...that may be just (overlapping voices) 
 I got some feeling when you're talking about it that it was like there was some way in which you just couldn't bear to have to worry about the product. Like you had...give it to your boyfriend to type and to punctuate because there's something and you just couldn't bear to look at it. 
 What's your feeling when you do...when you do read something like that ever? If you had had time to read one question, do you know what would have gone on for you then? 
 You mean afraid....do you mean rather than being afraid...you don't have it being afraid, you do have it?
 Yes. You were talking about this writing just a second ago...or something stirring in my memory that I couldn't remember exactly what that the...I felt that you must have...that somehow you had said almost the same thing about talking to other people and I frankly just don't remember when or what or anything about it but just something really stirred there. 
 I got the (inaudible) terribly sort of cute and interpretive around all this business but it...what occurred to me was when you hand in one of these products as finished under terrific strain and pressure, it's like that doesn't have to count as a product of yours in a sense that's something that was produced under pressure and it's bound to be not as good as you could make it and it's like, I guess, like the pain of that in some way is less than this whatever is in (inaudible) your idea. I'm not sure whether... 00:41:07
 Now it's almost like if there's something that there's more than one or that it's an open question...how you interpret it, kind of; like if you take a topic for a paper, it's an open question how you interpret that topic. It's not so much an open question what you say about yourself, in a sense, like you...
 Yes. Yes, they might put some sort of different...I mean they might say well, this is your problem...that's your problem but that's the one thing that you really do know best. 00:44:38 
 I guess something that was hitting me about the letter business was it's just more of the vicious circle nature; it's like you go into it, let's say, worried that it will come out stupid or something and by...and you're so anxious about that that it really does come out stupid except not because...not that you can't write but because you're anxious. 
 But the end product is as bad as you feared it would be and each time it gets reinforced from worrying about it or something. 
 Looks to me like one day you feel paralyzed sometimes because it's like rally the business about the centipede that thinks about how he's walking and suddenly he's just (overlapping voices) and that's sort of a very light way of putting it but when you are so self conscious about either how you're sounding or how you're...how you're being that you lose (inaudible) You feel yourself being constantly sort of vigilant about how you are in situations or doesn't it occur (inaudible)? 00:48:23 
 (overlapping voices) out of all that?
 (inaudible) just sort of flailing yourself with that. 
 Yeah, we've had...I was thinking about how you are in here and how you seem in here and I...one thing I was thinking was that I think...I don't know whether it's because you're different in here than you are outside, but in some ways, I think you...you seem...if you are...if you feel anxious and self conscious in here, many times you cover it up very well. You do...you don't...you see into, often, what you're talking about. Sometimes I have the sense that you're being more pleasant than you feel...I don't mean that you're holding back hostile feelings but you...that you are struggling to be cheerful maybe. But...and now that you say that about struggling for the words, yeah, I think...I feel like that's happened. You know, where I've pressed you...now be specific; what do you mean; I'd like to know an example and that's been hard but generally I...a lot of times that doesn't show. And I don't know whether that's, you know, whether that's good or bad for you. I mean whether it's good to hear that or not or how you feel about it if it's so or....
 Yeah. Yeah, I know that (inaudible) that's one main thing that always seems to be uncomfortable (inaudible)
 Did that...did my saying that do something to you? I sense you're crabby (ph)...retreating or...I don't mean that in a defensive way but...
 Yeah. 
 Or if you're feeling anxious, you are covering it up. 00:54:40
 (inaudible) came through the phone (inaudible) 
 But that reminds me...I just want to say I was really sorry that we were so rushed at the end of last hour because it's so important that...I mean, that you did get all that out, what you were saying but also...like, I didn't get a chance to ...we didn't get a chance to do anything with it and it felt good to me. I really hate that when...
 That brings to mind another thing which was...as things go by so quickly I'm...I sort of think slow and I often think about things later and come up with...you said, at one point last time, about whether I felt comfortable stepping outside the class (inaudible) framework, or something like that and it feels to me like I don't have any stock thing that I do or I...I mean like I...I don't have any principle; like I don't do anything but reflect feelings...there are some things I don't feel that comfortable doing. But I'm willing to try lots of things; like I don't feel comfortable telling people what to do. 
 But I don't know...I'm not really (inaudible) reflect the feelings and I'm willing to...for us to try things that aren't just talking about (inaudible)
 I think I must...you know, I feel much more comfortable than I did a couple of years ago. I don't know...like doing things like talking about scheduling stuff but I wonder if I...I must give off some sort of signals because I apparently come across as being much more orthodox or feeling that...make people think that I want to be much more orthodox than I rally even think I want to be, if you know what I mean. That sounded a little confused. But like, I'm not all that interested in reflecting feelings. I do; it's basic and important but it's not as important as I must make people feel that it is or something. 
 Okay. Next week at this time okay? As far as you know... (inaudible) 
 Two and seven is nine. 
 I guess I imagine some of it is to do with being beyond sick and tired of having to clean up everybody else's shit. I mean, literally, obviously the things in the refrigerator, but—.
 You know, you're in this sort of cluster box situation with I guess trying to get somebody in there about which at least so far I've seen you can really do nothing.
 And—. [00:04:41]
 Yeah. At a time when you're pretty close to the edge to begin with.
 And sometimes go over it. And that doesn't have any effect on anybody, I don't think as far as getting help with the situation.
 I agree that it would be good if you could find a way out of this business with renting the apartment. It does sound like that would help.
 Yep, but—but the apartment stuff makes it different. You, you're right, of course you have to go to work tomorrow. [00:10:30]
 Yeah.
 Yeah. [00:11:15]
 What would it cost to make this darn thing go away?
 Because I understand that some areas are—
 Right.
 Can James's parents pick up the tab on this? [00:12:05]
 Why are you talking (ph) about then?
 What do you mean?
 Well—some of that seems to do with yesterday?
 I know if yesterday hadn't happened, you'd still probably be feeling pretty shitty and getting through the week would still be kind of overwhelming, but it is worse.
 Because of what happened. [00:14:50]
 And I think it will likely be less worse to the extent you can get it out in a reasonable way. What's James doing today?
 Can he take the day off and square away this apartment crap? [00:15:38]
 I see.
 Tanya, I'm not yet saying you should turn it over to him. I honestly didn't know some of the history with that.
 I see. You know it's more simple than I thought. [00:18:00]
 It is. It's more of an impossible problem now.
 You know, I think I'm probably making this harder.
 But I thought instead of helping you with the ones that you had a kind of like another sentiment on you that you—yeah.
 Sorry about that.
 Well—I think it's probably not entirely your problem. Rather that you're somewhat helpless in light of the way people don't want to know.
 Yeah.
 Right. [00:26:22]
 Well, it sounds like it's some of each. I think. It's like partly a way of having yourself in the hospital and continuing the situation and partly you're feeling more like you would.
 You may have been at moments like, not been here, but I've been thinking was that in a while. [00:27:55]
 And it sounds like you think you might—kill yourself.
 Do you mean like you go to the hospital and you get—.
 Is part of what you're saying is that at the end of the day nothing really helps?
 I think part of what you're saying is at the end of the day nothing really helps with this. You might be safe a week, for a week in a hospital or, you know, relieved to just have no work structure or whatever it is for a little while.
 I think you're right. And if I don't think anybody can really fully protect you from that—or maybe you very much. [00:31:57]
 You mean in terms of it sort of all being back on you? [00:32:50]
 You've had a lot of practice.
 Yeah, I think I'm clearer from what you said. I really want to know.
 Do you want to know?
 Do you want to know? [00:35:44]
 Okay.
 Obama won. Obama won.
 Sure. I get your point that you're just sick of the fucking world.
 Which you hate.
 You know what? I guess now it seems a lot more like the same old hell hole.
 Do you think we made progress (ph)? [00:42:56]
 That's a tough call. (silence from [00:43:35] to [00:45:12) I imagine you don't want to change.
 And you have no idea how you're going to manage doing either one.
 I don't know. Maybe you kind of get through it, and you probably don't. I don't mean you don't get it fixed on a lot of time because I think you do, but—.
 Yeah. [00:46:25]
 Yeah. Now I can see how—
 Well we might as well stop for now.
 They gave me your chart number code that's different. You had a different name then.
 Yeah.
 Bad name, right.
 Yeah.
 Oh.  Okay, that's what you're, you're asking-?
 All right so how long were you there?
 All right.  What kind of problem, what kind of experience was it?
 Hopefully you never will.
 Um-hum.
 Wow.
 So when did you go, on Friday?
 Yeah, well.  
 That's good.  
 Yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can keep that.  All right. Okay.  So-
 Yeah, but it depends, now you're [INAUDIBLE], that was in, well, actually, did we go up to that much?
 Right, and I-
 Oh, you didn't?  Okay.
 All right.  
 Really?
 All right.  That's good.
 So what's this, you're taking one 40 in the morning and 80 at night?
 Are you-?
 Oh, okay, okay.  
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 What does that say?
 Capsule R08.
 Yeah, but-
 Ah well. All right so some of the things like sometimes Geodon will cause muscle-
 Either like twitching or like it just, like when you get like this, it's very unlikely.  I mean it's much more likely with some of the older medications.
 But occasionally, you know, it'll happen.  I don't necessarily, well it says to take it here every six hours as needed.  So obviously you don't need it.
 Sometimes you can also get this motor restlessness. Something called Akathisia, but that when you pace, and move, but...
 Yeah, I mean you generally, you probably would have had it already. 
 You know.  I mean did you go right away up to this dose or-?
 You just started right away on it?
 Or you started it-?
 And you stayed awake during the day?
 Oh God.
 Oh.
 You got used to it fast.
 Sounds like you got used to it pretty quickly.
 But you're used to it now?
 Hmm.
 All right, that's great.  And it's working?
 Yeah, but that's-
 Yeah, well.  
 Yeah, and you're not, I mean I um, as long as they weren't putting you on Zyprexa.  
 Yeah, well-
 Yeah, of course.  I mean, yeah.
 Yeah, but I think, you know, I thought that because of your symptoms that they wanted you on this class of medications.
 Yeah.
 All right.  Let's, so you had an overall positive experience.
 That's great.
 Um-hum?
 Did they?
 Yeah.
 That's horrible.  
 Yeah, I mean, are you comfortable?
 Do you see him enough to-
 You still traveling a lot?
 Yeah.  Um, well, I'm glad you finally got comfortable enough to talk about it.
 You know, or uncomfortable enough that you-
 But.
 When's your next appointment?
 Oh, that's good.
 Before you went in?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's probably fairly, they must have been very impressed with you in the hospital.  Generally, you know, they have to call and make appointments and make sure somebody will follow up.
 [INAUDIBLE] for them ahead of time so that was-
 Well that was, I don't know.  That's, but it's good, I mean you got to kind of shape your own destiny. 
 You know, as opposed to like, you know, getting to where it's completely, you know, have no choice, you either go immediately, you know, so...
 No, I mean, that's-
 Right, that's, I mean you've had enough wherewithal to do something about it before that happened which is great.  Yeah.  So-
 No, I don't think so.  What's the, you're on Spironolactone?  
 That's right, that's right. 
 Doesn't stop or-
 Yeah, well, I don't know.  I would say, are you, you're not, are you still taking these other meds?  [INAUDIBLE] you on. The Wellbutrin, Ritalin? 
 You're off those.
 Well I don't know, we didn't really talk about that but yeah, but I would stop this um-
 Well yeah.  I'd stay off the, the Wellbutrin.  And let's hold the Ritalin because you may be able to, if you need to we may able to look at that.  
 Yeah.
 Bipolar I.
 Well... 
 Yeah but I mean if you have, you know, if that's what you have, um, you know it's much more common, to have ADHD if you're bipolar but the symptoms, you know, sometimes it's difficult to-
 Yeah, distinguish that.  But I mean you also have some other somewhat unusual symptoms that don't necessarily get along one or the other of those and stuff.  You know.  But, whatever it is, I mean generally, I guess if you're on too much Synthroid that could throw things off or if you're not on enough with the depression.
 Yeah.  But I think that the, you know, with the Geodon, you know, that'll help not only with the mood symptoms but also with the-
 Well I don't know so much.  I mean it might help some like activity, impulsiveness a little but also some of the thought process stuff, you know, I think that that that's why I wanted you on the medicine in that class as opposed to just a mood stabilizer, Depakote or Lithium because you know, I wanted to make sure we got some control over these, these thought processes that were-
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.  That's the idea, the drive and you know, the stuff like that.  So, all right.  Anyway, I don't know.  I mean if you get like, we talked about these side effects you know.  If you don't fill the Congestin which probably, I wouldn't bother, um, if you have any of those side effects you can use Benadryl if you have that, or you can buy that over the counter.
 You know that may make you tired but at this point I don't imagine you'll have any problem since you don't at the current time.  All right, so, now do you have, how much do, do you have a refill on that?  Probably not, right?
 Okay.  
 All right.  Do you use the Spironolactone all the time?
 Okay.  And that's working?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, you were saying.
 Well, yeah, I mean it's like, it's the focus?
 Trouble reading?  Or blurry a little or-?
 Before the [INAUDIBLE] before the Geodon?
 Oh.
 Hmm.
 I mean what, that would be the most likely.  Cogentin wouldn't particularly help that but I don't know.  Synthroids, Spironolactone, I have no idea if that would do anything.  I don't know.
 It's no better or worse off the Wellbutrin and on the Geodon?
 All right.
 Yeah.  
 Well-
 It does, [INAUDIBLE]
 You want this back?
 All right.  I'll keep it in here.  
 All right, so, do you, how soon do you want to, want to come back? 
 That's all right.
 No.  Yeah, I would, I don't, six weeks at the most.
 Four weeks.  Six weeks.  Something.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  All right.  So when did you fill this?
 Oh, okay.
 So I'll tell you what.  Just so you have enough, I'll make sure you have enough.
 Okay.
 Why?
 Whoa, whoa, whoa, do you have the percent?
 You don't have like a tier.  You have to pay a percent of the medicine?
 Okay.  Call and find out.  It's going to be cheaper to get thirties, forties and thirty eighties.  Because they eighties probably don't cost much more than the forties.
 And then you only need sixty pills.  You're going to have to pay a percent...
 Anyway.  I mean if we can do that, um, that would be, that would be great.  All right.  Okay.  Here's this.  And, I'll give you some samples.  I'll give you some eighties just so you have enough and I'll see you in a month.  I do think with the, a lot of the suspicious thinking, some of the paranoia and the unusual thought processes, some of the rigidity and what not, that the mood is more related to that and that the diagnosis is not bipolar disorder but it's more based on the paranoid suspicious ideas and the, you know, the unusual, bizarre thought processes and more in the schizophrenia realm.  All right.  
 So, um, [NAME OTHER] was telling me that, you know, you want to put the stuff up there on the board before we get started?
 I'd love it; I mean it's great to -
 It looks like we're finally able to erase it somewhat so -
 But yeah, I think that this is a good use of this board, and it gives us some -
 Some goals to focus on as we're discussing.
 Did the chiropractor help you?
 Um-hum.  Did they do some films on it?
 Um-hum, um-hum.  Well -
 Yeah.
 Oh good, okay.  So you got to talk about all this stuff with [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER] as well, huh?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, I, I didn't want her to sneak a peak at it, because I know that you guys talk and you're friends, so.
 Most people wouldn't of connected these things, but, um, but we finally got an eraser for our board here, so that's kind of nice.
 Let me see that marker.  Is it a dry erase marker or is it some sort of permanent?
 Well, I can get it, I can get it out with, um, alcohol swabs.
 In any case, okay, so here we are, of course, um, [INAUDIBLE] it doesn't surprise me that you've, uh, on the top of the list.  That's, um, that's a good positive list.  And we've struggled with all of those areas before, you know?  Um-
 How we doing with the drinking of the pop?
 Okay, so it's not a big -
 I do see, I see a lot of people that drink a lot of pop and don't even realize it, you know?
 Even a diabetic, they manage to drink a 1000, easily 1000 calories of pop a day, and you know, her blood sugars are all out of whack, so  my, come on, two-pack a day smoker, and -
 And she's on medicines now because she can't breath.  It's almost like it's some kind of a test.  Are you a smoker?
 Good for you.
 All right, so family, here we see on the negative side of things though, still arguing with brother.
 Who's older again, you or?
 All right, we've moved up the sobriety date.  Is that, is that accurate?
 [DATE].
 Yeah.
 Does your brother know about the -
 Does [NAME OTHER]'s parents know about that?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Okay.  Are you going to AA?
 What do you think about AA, I mean do you?
 Yeah.
 I don't know, I mean, you've got a lot of trouble.
 It's caused a lot of trouble in your life; I mean it gives you -
 But you wouldn't disagree with that, would you?
 And if you think about, are you familiar with AA and like their motto and have you gone to any of their meetings in the past?
 I mean are you familiar with the 12 steps?
 Okay.
 Yeah, well the thing with the 12 steps, I mean, some of it's, it's hard to kind of argue with, especially I think it's, step four the, um, you know, the moral inventory.
 And looking at all the things that have been related to drinking -
 And then making amends to that, but I, you know.
 Um-hum.
 Well, yeah, I think, you know, not everybody agrees with a lot of the approach of AA, but I think, um, I don't know, most people can take a look at it.
 It makes you think for themselves, you know.
 Hm?
 Um-hum.
 What's the back problem?  Is this a new thing?
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Well another concern I suppose -
 What?
 Well -
 This is, this is -
 Is that right?
 You know what?  I wasn't really going to say that.  Well -
 What I was going to say it is weight related, but it is lifting a baby on your back.
 Bending over and changing diapers, these types of things are kind of new.
 And, and, clearly it could provide some stress on muscles that aren't used to being used.
 Yeah, see what I'm saying now?
 Yeah.
 Then you're picking up, you know -
 Bouncing, whatever.
 The whole bouncy too -
 I think you're going to have to pay a lot of attention to using like proper lifting techniques and stuff.
 I mean, are you going to follow up with the back doctor again or?
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Well, you know.
 Well some of it, yeah, I mean, it's a genetic thing, and if you inherit it in -
 There are, there's a couple that are the two main kinds of arthritis, one is rheumatoid, which is, you know -
 Yeah, so you know, it's, um, rheumatologic disorder, genetically inherited.  But then you can have osteo, which is, you know, friction, usually it's the bigger joints, you know, this is where weight comes in, you know, it's heavier, it's harder -
 Harder to squeeze, hips usually it's the hips.
 But the hands are usually, you know, the rheumatoid -
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Right, right.
 Where is the numbness, what's the pattern?  The whole hand?
 Um-hum.
 Could be, yeah, could be, it's through your upper back, these cervical [INAUDIBLE].
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 He's not too thorough huh?
 Well -
 Um-hum.  It's complicated when you go in with all kinds of problems, I'd think if you'd have one -
 Well, you can ask them.
 How do you want to handle this, you know, right?
 Once a year, six months, how ever they want to do it.
 Well, again, it could be trauma related, I mean that's low back and then it goes down the back of the leg.
 Yeah, it can.
 Um-hum, so -
 Well, but sometimes it's just the matter of sneezing or bending funny -
 Or hunching over, I mean it could be -
 Yeah.  You know, it could be diaper related as well.  It could be a lot of diaper trauma here going on.
 You have to be careful, you know -
 You could change the baby on a proper height table.
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 But not as much.
 Just some common sense things to think about.  So, you're not working at all now or what?
 Um-hum.
 Oh I'm sure of that.  Well, um -
 Well you know we're at a point, maybe we ought to revisit, uh, make an increase in the, uh, Zoloft.
 No?
 Are you sure about that?
 Yes it is, all right.  What's interesting was it was almost a year ago, it was August.
 Right, um, we could change that to a different antianxiety antidepressant if you'd like, I mean are you feeling depressed with all of this going on?
 Well that's a good point, you know.
 Um, how about, um, fluoxetine, have you ever taken fluoxetine, it's Prozac?
 Why don't we see what happens with that, uh, in place of -
 The Zoloft.
 It's lower.  It would be 20 mg instead of 100.  We don't have to do it, but I think it's a good idea.  It's a good medicine, it's well tolerated, it's not habit forming, it's an anti anxiety antidepressant drug, it came out in the 80s.
 It's kind of a gold standard treatment in the, in the clinical trials, in fact even in the PDR and the information from the FDA there's a, you know, warning in there about weight loss, not weight gain.  It's not a weight loss pill, but you know.
 So, um, I think you'll find it can provide some comfort, maybe help you even with some of the, you know, the stuff you're working on with the EA groups.
 So -
 And we can get it going in a dose that I think, you know, what I would do is, is just start it at 20 mg a day, and for a week, I've got some lower Zoloft to [INAUDIBLE] stop it.  What do you think [PATIENT NAME], can you do that?
 That's for a week and then you stop the Zoloft.
 Yeah, it's [INAUDIBLE].
 Yeah, you can.
 Have you?
 [INAUDIBLE].  Right, okay.  Uh -
 For what?
 I know, do what you've got to do.
 Here's the thing, here's the thing, um, I'm worried about your mood cycle and if you take it, and I'm worried about, you know, weight is another issue.
 Yeah, 4 mg is a low dose.
 So I think you'll probably be all right on it, but, yeah, I don't know what to say about it, those are my concerns, it's not that you can't take it, but those would be my precautions that I would advise you to monitor, okay?
 Well then you better get your -
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Well the plan was, um, to be taking 2, 80s and a 40, right?
 Yeah, that's what it looks like, so -
 Yeah, but they're probably, it's on 2 different scripts.
 Oh no, here it is.
 Yeah, Geodon 80, take 2, and Geodon 40 take 1.  Well if they didn't fill it, tell them to pull the script and show it to you, because it's right there on, I have a copy of it.
 Yeah, they only gave you 1 of them, 1 was an 80 mg, they filled 2 of them, the other one is 40 mg [INAUDIBLE], but they do have a copy of it.
 Right.
 Well they have a copy of the script.  It's like a, having the Xerox.
 2, 80s and 1, 40.
 Yeah.
 Okay, we'll switch it on over, see what happens.
 Oh yeah.  [NAME OTHER] told me you brought the new pictures, let me see.
 Those are nice, now did you take these or did you go to a photographer?
 Good, I'll have to check that out.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 That's great, I did notice that.
 Well you told me, so good, so keep it up.  All right?
 Well it's not helping matters, because -
 Yeah, well, you know.
 So it happens as we age, as I've learned myself, with my own weight, you know.
 It's coming along -
 A little bit.
 No sweat, it's coming along well.
 I try not to.
 Yeah.  Well all right, good to see you.
 All right?  We'll see how this works.  Oh, I hope it works [PATIENT NAME].  Oh yes, look at that.  Perfect!
 Beautiful!  Man, that's fun!  Okay, we'll see you in a few, good luck with all of that stuff, okay?
 Yeah.
Research to Listen, Understand and Analyze Physician-Patient Interactions
 Yes I imagined you're probably about ready to feel like you're getting something from just persevering with everything. [00:02:33]
 Getting something back for just sticking with it; with the kids, with work.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 Do you know what made it hard to say something?
 I wonder if you were like anxious because you were worried, knowing what was going to happen?
 I would think you would have to know you might be careful how you approach him.
 Yes, all sorts of things.
 (inaudible). How do they package the flowers and ship them Fed-X.
 How could that be bad?
 (inaudible).
 Yes Hallmark (inaudible).
 (inaudible). [00:12:51]
 (inaudible).
 Yes.
 Okay. [00:14:25]
 Well that's great you cleaned up a little and you got some of (inaudible) accounts squared away I mean it's hard to do(inaudible).
 (inaudible). [00:17:02]
 That's really not good.
 (inaudible) to eat. (Pause) Is there anymore help you can get or is that?
 And there's no way, I assume, to have somebody else take the (inaudible) for a year and get (inaudible) back?
 (inaudible).
 Well hopefully it will but, I mean, you're probably going to wind up with too much money, you know.
 The only thing that's going to make a difference is business picking up. (Pause) And the impression is that some combination, I don't know, some combination of, you know, just getting more business in and feeling better, like feeling well enough to (inaudible). You know that gets really hard when you're feeling (inaudible). [00:23:52]
 Were you anxious about (inaudible) it up?
 Right.
 So (inaudible) how much of this (inaudible) how much is it not; in other words, like it sounds like (inaudible).
 I that because you're really happy to do closings, because you're really getting paid well, is that what you want to be doing (inaudible)?
 Is it like being worried (inaudible) or being resentful about having to do it?
 It doesn't sound like you got nothing coming in the next few months. It's not as much as you want but not.
 I'm not as hopeful that—I think you do fairly often, which is to talk to your dad about like what you need to be doing or what's going to make things better and talking about how bad things are and how much you to wish they were different.
 It means I think it's hard for you to think about the things that you need to be doing because you're so overwhelmed with how bad things are and what you don't have.
 But does it have to be (inaudible). And you (inaudible) the big check of the year. (inaudible), which would have been your chance to make some more connections. [00:34:16]
 Yes.
 (inaudible). (Pause) Yes it's good you called her up and took care of it, when did you do the closing?
 (inaudible) a lot easier if you were in this with somebody else, you know? (inaudible) that can make a big difference.
 (inaudible) what is?
 (inaudible).
 (inaudible) for now [00:44:09]
 Sure.
 Whatever you feel like talking about at this point.
 And it is that you just don't want it?
 Maybe I should turn off my phone.
 So if I get it, you have the desires towards him and other men, sometimes, and other men too? 
 But then, when it comes right down to it and he expects to make love to you, then you just (inaudible 0:03:03.0)?
 Okay.
 Sort of like brushing your teeth. Is that it?
 I hear you saying you want it to be something more special or  - ?
 Yes, you just stop there?
 So, like, this is an important thing for your being able to make it with each other?
 Yes, I see. You're thinking, like, of all the possible things that could have caused this, but that didn't quite seem right. And now, there it is. And you don't know what to do about it.
 Yes. Like, that should be reckoned because that's a theory people have (inaudible 0:08:39.7). It should be your background. That you don't know how to fit that together...
 ... with what's happening now.
 No.
 Yes. So that's it? It's just painful and you don't know what to do about it?
 By theory, you could make it somebody who isn't your husband.
 Yes. It sounds like that - it showed you that as something that...
 ... you were okay. It wasn't your fault that you were... (0:12:43.6)
 Yes. Like, what is that? That you're just afraid that things will go on badly between you and your husband. And also, if there will be a person there and you'll do it again? That there's kind of nothing to stop you?
 Yes. So something like that doesn't make any sense that should have been okay there?
 Yes. So it looks like a mystery. I understand.
 Yes. So if I get it, in the middle of it, he says something which is, like, really irritating to you? Or he says to you, "I'm not interested in making love to you. I'm only interested in your being perfect or something." And then, that really turns you off?
 But you can understand why he does it, but it still hurts your feelings.
 Yes. It looks like it's been dissolving for a long time. 
 And all of a sudden it hits you.
 But you really haven't been excited or romantic with each other or haven't had (inaudible 0:23:13.9) moment in a long time.
 So if he really wanted you, he wouldn't have put up with it?
 Something about the situation that's happening right now, you mean?
 And I didn't get that though. Now why does he do that?
 But - let me go back a little. It sounds like you - you resent that a little. Like he's cutting you off. When he does it, why shouldn't you be able to do it?
 Yes. Like it's one sided. And that makes you angry.
 It's sort of like he really doesn't care about you? Now that he's got you, he can just go walk and do something else. (0:28:43.7)
 But you don't believe it, right?
 So was it then that you sort of wanted to act with that or you were envy or hurt or  - ?
 Yes. So does he - it was like you were really happy and ready to go but then he's not responding? And on top of that he's telling you it's your fault?
 Yes. You're just locked in that relationship. 
 My feeling about that is that we have to just keep talking and see what we can pull out of your experiences now that will help find the solution.
 Sure.
 And now, in essence, it fell on you. I mean, you couldn't tell anybody.
 If I get it, it's like all those years, there were some shameful things that were happening and some - sometimes you felt like you were - there was something wrong with you or something. But there was never anyone to share that with. (0:38:24.3)
 What is that like? What's it like, what if somebody finds or  - ?
 That's something people should no about?
 Yes. Sort of like you're always saying, "I am not a sexual person," to the world. So if you say...
 You just can't control it? No (inaudible 0:41:55.3). 
 Yes. So let me see I get that. It's like, with men, it's like a sexual thing there you're always holding back. With women, it's the same kind of holding back but just it's - because it's not - there's not a chance that you would get asked out there?
 It was like sort of never giving you anything really...
 Then you would get the attention and you'd get the one for real. You would feel secure.
 Protecting yourself for the time you'll be all alone?
 Yes. So it is pretty lonely. And if you lost him, then there would be nothing, right?
 Somehow he doesn't appreciate what you are. It has to be somebody else in (inaudible 0:52:37.8)?
 You just make him comfortable and that's all he wished for.
 Yes I see. You would be better than that.
 What's (kind of making you smile?) I mean, what is that? I'm missing that.
 So, like, constantly coming down on you and putting you down and hurting your feelings.
 (Inaudible 0:56:59.9).
 If you - I mean, if you believe you're totally satisfied with him?
 Yes. You'd like to believe it. But it still gets to you when he criticizes you.
 Yes. I'm hearing two things there. One is that you just don't like people on your back all the time.
 And the other is why can't they just take you like you are? I mean, why do they hurt your feelings all the time like that? Like they see you and respect you or something like that? (0:58:51.3)
 And you're stuck with, how do I live with that?
 You know, even if it isn't aimed at me personally.
 So communication is really breaking down? (1:01:52.7)
 This has been going on for a long time.
 Time to stop. Do you want to come once a week or how often? That's up to you. If you feel comfortable, come twice a week. Some people come once. Some people come once every two weeks.
 My feeling is that - that it's up to you and the way you feel. Because it's yourself. I mean, some people don't have anything to talk about every two weeks. And some people, when they're upset, like to come twice a week. You know, it just depends on where you're at.
 Well we can see how it works.
 That's the trouble. I have - you wanted to come at 6:00. And I - I don't have any 6:00 times. They're all taken.
 Now, if I could find my book (inaudible 1:04:59.6). It seems to have disappeared at the moment. You need - let's see. How about between 3:00 & 4:00? Is that - that's still the same problem?
 That's bad.
 Thursday night. No. Could - I could do it from 6 & 7. I'll have to try that at. I'm not sure what kind of shape I'll be in by that time of night.
 Well there's also Friday from 6:00 to 7:00, slightly day. But the trouble is the patient that comes, doesn't always come at 5:00. And I can't predict the traffic. But (inaudible 1:06:57.7).
 All right. Because I - there isn't any other alternative.
 Right. I can sure understand that. $4.00 is a little drain. How do you spell your last name?
 Could be (inaudible 1:07:39.2). Poll... Oh I know. Another thing you could do is - well no. That wouldn't work all the time. I was thinking, one of my classes is coming in for two weeks. But you don't - you would want to come once a week. So that wouldn't work. That way, you could come from 5:00 to 6:00 and we could do it then. That may work.
 But let's try this.
 Okay. And that'll be (inaudible 1:08:47.9). That goes in a box, downstairs and through the reception. It's a little gray cardboard box. You can slide it in.
 Okay.
 Session number two on the 8th.
 All right, [PATIENT NAME], you were here what two weeks ago?
 Wait was it two weeks ago?
 [DATE], right?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 All right.  Well, we'll talk about that.
 Uh, tell me about cutting the dose.  No problems there at all.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah?  
 What's going on with the moods?
 Um-hum.  You feel depressed, [PATIENT NAME]?
 Okay well tell me - 
 Yeah.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum. Well - 
 I could prove you are not disoriented.
 I could prove you're not disoriented.
 I mean, we, when we, you know again in the medical parlance we are oriented to time, place or person.  I would almost guarantee you that there's no doubt in my mind that you are not disoriented to time, place or person, right?
 So what are, how are you disoriented?  Maybe we should choose a different word.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum. You know, [PATIENT NAME], when we talk about depression it's easy to see somebody, you know, crying in a corner and you ask them are you sad are you depressed he says yes, you know, whatever he's not eating, he's not sleeping, but especially as we age, uh, you know sometimes depression is not about somebody crying, uh, or even acknowledging or admitting that they are,  they feel depressed, but you notice that, you know, they're isolate themselves or they have lost motivation, lost interest - 
 They're sleeping too much or they're not sleeping enough, um, maybe they're not taking care of themselves, maybe they are having problems staying focused, you know, those - 
 Um-hum.  It's very difficult sometimes when we found, when we, you know, you talk about people who are unmotivated, as let's say somebody in their seventies or eighties they're not motivated, they have no interest, you think, ah, well until proven otherwise they are depressed, but there are cases where that's not true where they have some kind of, you know, amotivational syndrome - 
 But they're not depressed and is this part of a dementia, is this something else, I mean maybe ten years from now we'll give it a name I don't know, um, but, you know, you have been on mood stabilizers that supposedly keep your moods, you know, from being huge up and down swings - 
 Um, the last time you were here we cut the, um, the Risperdal down to 0.5 and we said we were going to start the lithium, right?
 And we also cut back on the Depakote.
 Right?  And so the changes of decreasing the Depakote and decreasing the Risperdal, um, have not been negative or harmful to you in anyway?
 And you had been on lithium for many years -
 And done well on lithium, right?
 Reasonably well, yeah?
 Okay.  And so, so you are taking the 300 mg of lithium?
 And the 250 and I think we talked about - 
 Yeah it's 300, yeah.  And we talked about maybe going off of the Risperdal and, or the Depakote, right?
 Okay, you still wanna follow - 
 Okay.   You're, and you know, [PATIENT NAME], gosh it would be nice if none of us had to take any medication at any time, but, you know, we believe or we're led to believe that that medicine X, Y or Z is going to help us with our problem, you know, whether it's our heart or our head or our foot or our whatever, kidneys, and we hope that it does help it does improve the quality of our life and we also hope that it doesn't hurt us in anyway and cause us side effects or, you know, short term or long term.  Um, so sometimes you gotta do what you gotta do.  I know, boy, I wish you didn't have to take any medication.
 Yeah.
 There are, I have some, I will loan you some information if you'd like to take a look at some stuff that is, um, propriety stuff from a place called, I've used their products before Metagenics.  I'll loan this to you and you'll give it back to me.
 Okay. 
 Um, Metagenics has, um, they produce pharmaceuticals and medical foods.
 And, um, they do a very nice job.  Um, I've used, I've used some of their products myself and I've used some for patients.  I, I don't want to be practicing, you know, homeopathic medicine.  The people that I do this stuff with are people, I'm very selective about who I use this stuff with, you know?  Um, I've used some of their products for, um, for sleep, I've used some for ADD for, there's a product they have, which is very good for, uh, women with their menses and stuff.  I've not used any of these things here, [PATIENT NAME], yet.  These are new stuff.
 Um, but one day I think, I may do that.  There's been more things, oh, actually I'll tell you something interesting.  Did you ever, I have a woman who is bipolar who actually drinks some kind of a juice called, I'm going to mess it up now, Goji juice or something like that, Goji juice - 
 And she, it's expensive, it's expensive stuff.  She drinks this juice, ah, which is an all natural juice from some berry of some kind and she read about this stuff and she swears by the stuff as far as a mood stabilizer goes.
 Um, and she said I can get you some literature on it if you'd like and I can, um, but I'd tell anybody, she told me, your bipolar patients it's worth trying.  Now she's still taking some mood stabilizers, but she's cut her dosage back, she's doing great.  So I can get information from her if you'd like about that stuff if you want to look at it.
 Okay, okay.
 Um-hum, yeah.
 Um-hum, um-hum.
 Okay.  So, um, the next step for us, [PATIENT NAME], is to, you want to dump the, ah - 
 Risperdal?
 Or do you want to cut it down to half of what you're taking?
 Yes.  Understood.
 Okay, do you want to dump that?
 We'll leave the Depakote for this week.
 At the 250 and the 300 on the lithium?
 Okay.
 All right.
 Okay.  You strike me, this is our third visit right? 
 You strike me as somebody who, if nothing else, has, besides your intellectual curiosity you have a lot of integrity and you are an honest person, right? 
 So, what I'm leading up to here is that I need for you to talk to me, to communicate with me, to be honest with me so that if in going off of medicine X, Y or Z that there is a change that is moving you in the wrong direction that you let me know about it.  
 Good. 
 Yes, yes. 
 Yes, I understand.  
 You are?
 Are you selling it?
 Really?  
 Well, that's a big farm you have, right? 
 Okay. 
 Sure. 
 What didn't they like about that? 
 Yeah, always is, isn't it? 
 Well, we had spoken to your daughter - 
 So I'm sure she keeps in touch with you and if there was something going on, she would - 
 Did you have a nice time with her?
 Oh yeah. 
 I'm sure she would let me know if there was a problem, too. 
 Good.  What do you attribute that to, [PATIENT NAME]?
 All right.  Meaning? 
 Um-hum. 
 Um-hum.
 Speaking of the paranormal.  Give me the name, if you would, of that philosopher that you mentioned last week, I want to do some reading on.  
 No. 
 No.  You went to the place that he has, a group that he runs, there's a group -  
 No.  He runs, I almost thought it was some kind of an enclay that you had gone to, it was someplace fairly local around here, a group of you that get together.  You were talking about camping or a trip or something, uh, it was like a, was it a Scandinavian name, or a German name?  
 [NAME OTHER], okay, spell that for me, please? 
 You can't?  
 [DEIDENTIFIED] - 
 And he is what nationality or - 
 Okay. 
 Okay and, um, any recommendations for reading? 
 Okay.  I like to read about him, about some of this stuff, okay? 
 Okay.  Um, you look healthy to me, uh, I hope that if you, if the best option for you is to sell the farm, I'm sure you would have some mixed regrets in doing that, but if it works out for you that opens up a whole lot more opportunities for you to do other things and certainly would vastly improve your financial situation and I guess that's the primary motivation for you to sell the farm, right? 
 Hmm. 
 Very nice. 
 Great.  What does she play?
 Ah, good. 
 What's a dowser?
 Oh, really?
 Uh-huh. 
 Hmm. 
 Uh-huh. 
 Yeah.  You're in [DEIDENTIFIED], right? 
 I think there's some bad politics going on in [DEIDENTIFIED]. 
 You know? 
 Such as? 
 Good.  Do you got a, uh, how is it up for sale?  Do you have a word of mouth or do you have a realtor or what? 
 How may acres do you have? 
 Wow, God I'd hate to see another housing development go on there. 
 Yeah.  
 Does it feel good for you, [PATIENT NAME], to, sounds like if this woman could take the barn and the home that would be a nice thing, huh?
 Uh-huh. 
 Um-hum. 
 Um-hum. 
 Okay. 
 Uh-huh. 
 No kidding?
 Um-hum. 
 Okay. 
 Okay. 
 Um-hum. 
 Um-hum. 
 Yeah. 
 Um-hum. 
 Um-hum, sure. 
 Um-hum, right.
 Right.
 Right, [PATIENT NAME], how much do you read in a day or a week?  I mean, are you constantly reading?
 Slow reader?
 You mentioned the first time I saw you, I think, that you had some problems with retaining or grasping information now?
 Okay.  But you still read, though?
 Afraid of what?
 Okay. 
 Do you have any sense, [PATIENT NAME], of the most, one of the most pressing at least, if not superficial and tangible things right now is the finances. Do you have any sense for how much time it's going to be before you have any kind of an answer about the farm?
 Okay, so it's not in your hands I guess to - 
 Um-hum.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Um-hum.
 Um-hum. 
 Nice. 
 Good.
 I hope you have a wonderful time with her.
 Good for you.  It's a nice day to be out.
 Yeah, excellent.  You should have an enjoyable afternoon.
 Where you going for that?
 [DEIDENTIFIED], yes.
 Good.  That's where a lot of people around here go.
 Yeah.  Hey, [PATIENT NAME], um, you, we're done with the Risperdal then?
 Okay.  Do you need anything from me?
 Okay you got it.  How about lithium or Depakote?
 Good all right and we're gonna see you in, when?
 Two weeks, okay.  All right, you call me if you have any questions or any problems, will you?
 All right.  Good, good, good.  All right.
 Okay, Linda.  You, ah, made the appointment to see me.  You'd have to  tell me what's on your mind.  I'd like to hear.
 Did you, one time, have a lot in common?  Or is it diminishing or is it never been very much in common?
 No.  I mean, how long did you have not much in common?  You said “at a point”… (crosstalk)
 …when did the point come?
 So, where would you say the point came?  Is it like recently or is it been a year or two years… (crosstalk)
 Hmmm.
 Uh-hum.  And when did that happen?
 Okay.  Okay.
 You mean, your father has become a major problem?
 Lung cancer.
 Your father is still alive?
 I see.  I'm curious, how has your father's illness kind of some way or another (ph) affected your marriage?
 You, you think that your problem is related to what happened years ago?
 Well, your mother died years ago.
 Uh-hum.
 Uh-hum.
 That he's an old man?
 Uh-hum.  You're dissatisfied?
 And you're unhappy?
 And you have ahh not such good relationship with your husband?
 Okay.  Well, tell me.  What's good in your life right now?  There are some good things, I presume.
 Okay.  That's good.
 Financially, are you reasonably okay… (crosstalk)
 Okay.
 That's good.
 Could've a little less, too.
 And the kids are not a big source of worry?
 Uhmm.
 And they may have even dined out and worked with them when they're growing up a little bit.  So… (crosstalk)
 Uh-hum.
 Uh-hum. (sighs).  So do you want to be closer to your children?
 Yeah, if you knew how to do it, you wouldn't be here, right?
 (laughs).  When the people knew how to live their lives, they wouldn't go and see a psychiatrist.  So, tell me what you would be if you were happy.  If you could kind of depict in your head of a happy life for you right now.
 What would be going on in your life?  Well, not totally happy unless you get carried away.  But, but a lot happier than you are now.
 Uh-hum.
 Uh-hum. (sighs)
 Uh-hum.
 There are two things certainly would help them.
 Do you have any other relationship in mind beside your husband.  Are you like seeing another guy or thinkin' about another guy, or any of that stuff?
 Nothing like that at all.  How about your husband?
 I mean, if you knew you would tell me, but you have no… (crosstalk)
 …you have no indication that he has lost interest in you for another woman or anything like that?
 Uh-hum.  Usually when a man loses interest in a woman, he loses interest in her sexually.  Has that happened?
 He doesn't approach you much anymore?
 How often do you have sex—well, let's put it this way.  When did you last time have sex with your husband? 
 I know, you don't have to give me the exact date.
 Okay.  And you're 45 years old and you're healthy and you don't have any ovarian problem or is there anything like that?  Did you ever enjoy sex with your husband?
 Well, did you ever enjoy sex with anybody (inaudible 00:07:25) is your husband the only one you slept with?
 Okay.  That's interesting.  You're kind of a nice-looking woman.  It's—it's not even an important issue.  Didn't your husband used to be kind of attracted to you somewhat because you are a nice-looking woman?
 Uh-hum.  I mean, if we could interview him like 20 years ago and said, "Is Linda nice-looking woman?", he probably would have say, "Yes", right?
 Yeah.  And so—alright.  Well, is it that you've now crossed sex out of your life?  That's it?  No more sex?
 You can do as much about it as he could.  I mean, there's two people.
 No, no… (crosstalk)
 You must be one of the few people (inaudible 00:08:23) you don't know.
 Oh, I can't believe you.  But it's beyond, you know… (crosstalk)
 Oh, maybe you're blighting (ph) out, but it's so unsatisfactory.  That's a perfectly normal thing.
 Uh-huh.
 Okay.  That's fine.
 How do you know he's not interested?  Has he told you, "Linda, I'm not interested in sex.”
 Oh, during the height of an argument, huh?
 (sighs).  How about—do you ever have time as when you're not arguing or you're kinda just sitting around reasonably comfortable with each other?
 Yeah… (crosstalk)
 Uh-huh.  You're not against him.  And therefore, you just sit there and (inaudible 00:09:32) watching a TV program and not hassling each other?  You know, fight everyday, do you?
 I get the feeling that… (crosstalk)
 …fighting is not really what's going on here.  It's more like you're just drifting apart.
 Yeah.
 Well, a stronger marriage got to mean stronger sex.  It just ain't any other way.
 No.  But it's a big part of the glue.  That there's a glue part, it's half the part.  I mean, unless you're, you know, got some kind of a hormonal problem or something or you've got pain when sex—that you remember that you're being terribly in pain or you remember it's just being unsatisfying?
 Well, I guess you could (inaudible 00:10:34)… (crosstalk)
 So, you know what that is? (crosstalk)
 I know you're not?  You're obviously not.  You know, I mean… (crosstalk)
 I know.  But we can't focus on anything in your life.  We'll waste your time and your money.  We have to focus on some things that you can do something about.
 And he shows no sign of walking out the door... (crosstalk)
 …or in various kind of form?  He's providing a living reasonably?  You have the job you just mentioned before and so ahh, as I listen to it, I heard more problems between you and your husband.  If—let's say, you and your husband were getting along great, the amount of difficulty you have with your sons would probably not be registering as high as it is now, I would think?
 Okay.  So, why waste our time?  So talk about your mother and your father.  It's got very little to do with the thing in you (ph).  (inaudible 00:11:38) you're in a tough marriage right now and you're a normal person and you want a better one (ph)?
 Okay.
 You don't love your father that much?
 But you, you just don't like to see him uncomfortable, I suppose?.
 How much duty do you put in to that duty?  I mean, how much time do you spend with him?  Does he live with you?  Is he out… (crosstalk)
 Is he poor or has he got fairly got some dough?
 Money.  I mean, I mean… (crosstalk)
 …What I mean is, could he afford to have the nurse or whoever comes in?
 Or some home where they deal with hospice or something…(crosstalk) like that?
 …like that?(/p>
 Yeah.  So what's wrong with that?  How old is he... (crosstalk)
 …about 76?
 Uh-huh.
 Psychiatrists are also a psychic, you know.
 So what are you gonna do about your father?  Let's dispose (ph) of that quickly.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 By whom?
 Okay.  So, tell me what a kindness would be so I understand?
 Okay.  Your father wasn't a great guy.  That's not gonna change.  It's over.  The way he was, he was.  He's now sick.  You weren't the cause of his illness, I presume.
 Some of too much or something like that?
 And now, he's gone.  He's had reasonable medical care.  You didn't prevent him from going to the doctor or anything?
 You don't stop the nurse from coming in?  And so, I'm wondering what you could do for him, aside feeling miserable about it?  How is that helping him?
 Well, that's what we're going to talk about.
 Say what?
 You're not going to tell him what a miserable guy he… (crosstalk)
 Yeah.  I mean… (crosstalk)
 No.  I think that would be somewhat childish at this stage of the game.   That you should've done 30 years ago.
 Can't do. Thirty years ago has gone.  I'll tell you, yesterday has gone.  But is he making many demands upon you?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I would see he has some understanding of the fact that he wasn't the greatest guy in the world.  You'd probably appreciate a little bit (inaudible 00:15:10)?
 Further, he's not an appreciative man… (crosstalk)
 …from what you tell me… (crosstalk).
 …I mean—but, in whatever, he can't be—he's not like cursing you and saying you're the cause of his illness and… (crosstalk)
 …asking you to stay with him 23 hours a day or anything like that?
 Does he watch the TV?
 What's the doctor say—How long has he got?
 Okay.  So, I don't want to spend much more time on your father.  Maybe a little bit, but I'll tell you, I pre—I think you're right in two or three months he's gonna be gone.  And you might feel a little guilty about not giving him enough in things like that, but that's the way it's gonna be.  What's your main concern?  He's gonna be gone.  You can cry (inaudible 00:16:01) at his funeral, if that would help.  Then do what you can.  (sighs)  Might happen.  We don't know.
 Maybe you could cry for your mother at his funeral.  Maybe that's what you could cry for… (crosstalk)
 So he was not great with her either.
 Okay.  We'll, he's—let's say (snapping fingers) move the clock ahead: three months, he's gone.  Was your marriage gonna be any better with him being gone?
 I can see how it would be.  I mean, you'll be a little bit off that particular burden.  (sighs) So let's say he's gone.  Forget about your father ‘cause—let's say you're 45 and he's 76.  So you got about 31 more years if you do as well as him – which is quite possible.  What are you gonna do for the next 31 years, Linda?
 That's a reasonable concern to your life.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Good.
 That's good.
 Nothing you're asking for is, you know, beyond the realms of possibility or anything.  It's reasonable.
 No.  It all depends on you.
 Your happiness depends on you.  Of course, you can't control grandchildren.  You can't control your husband (ph) who (inaudible 00:17:55), you can control what you do.  And whatever it is, just from the way that you tell me, not working real well right now.
 Well, would have—might make a difference in yours.  I'm not saying it won't make a difference in his, but whatever you do, if it's somewhat different from what you're doing will either make your life better or worse, chances are.  And both of us, because I'm your psychiatrist that really—who wants to help you, chances—we, we're pushing for something better.
 So what you said is you want a nice marriage with a good husband and maybe a little traveling.  That wasn't an excessive demand?  He's not a mean person, as he'd beat up the people who work for him.  Neither does he come home and beat you up and curse you out or anything like that?
 Don't say “of course, not”.  A lot of husbands do.
 But your husband doesn't?
 You and your husband have just grown apart?
 Okay.  But That's not the problem now.
 We got the problem now… (crosstalk)
 You just told me you care about your old man… (crosstalk)
 …you care about your husband, you care about your kids. How can you… (crosstalk)
 …How can you, how can you self-delude yourself to that extent?
 Yeah.  It sounds like that was a little lacking in your life.  What with the (inaudible 00:19:46) interest in sex?  Your love is (inaudible 00:19:48) too slow-burnin'.   Yeah.  No doubt about it.
 I don't wanna talk about your father.  And I'm sorry I mentioned him.
 Let's talk about your husband.  He's alive and relatively healthy.  How old is he?  About 45, 46, too?
 Okay.  And relatively healthy?
 And a person of a reasonable mental qualities?  I mean, if he wanted to be an interesting person, he could be if he wanted to be?
 Uh-hmm.  Well, we can't please everybody.
 Uhhh.  I wonder why?
 Uh-huh.
 Hmmm.  That's one way of looking at it.  Could be that, could be something entirely different.  You might be very important to him.  You'll know.  You're not talking enough to find out?  When you read this women's magazine about, "Am I That Important in My Mirror (ph)", your parroting all the things out of cosmopolitan. (sighs)
 Well, you don't have to read them.  The people that write them know about you. (sighs)  Frustrating, isn't it?
 Nope.  When you're frustrated what do you do?
 Uh-huh.  You have a dog that at least… (crosstalk)
 …to walk with.  Well, (laughs) that's good you have a dog.
 Yeah.  Well, that's good.  Yeah. (sighs)  The dog loves to go for a walk.  Could you pick up (ph) the list that dog jumps out of her skin, huh? (sighs)  Okay.  You know, that's what Harry Truman said, that if you want love, buy a dog.  (laughs)  Buy a dog for ten bucks to love you for ten years and jump for joy every time you enter the house.  You can't get a human being to do that for ten bucks.  That's what Harry said.  But your husband doesn't jump for joy when you are in the house, right?
 When you hold up the least, she doesn't run and take a walk with you. (sighs)
 Uh-huh.  Maybe he'd like to be in the other hand (ph). (sighs)
 I don't know.  I haven't met the man.  You're, you're the one living with him in 27 years… (crosstalk)
 Uh-huh.  And I would say you don't wanna be led around either, do you?
 Uh-hmm.
 Okay.  Are you willing to do your share of walking side by side? (sighs)  Takes two people to get in line and walk side by side.
 Yeah.  Doesn't sound like it to me.
 You're saying you're waiting for him to change?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.  I'm saying is you should do something?
 You're saying: he won't change.  He's uninterested.  What if I told you I think he's scared to be interested?"
 I don't know why.  Maybe ‘cause he'll get rejected.  You must be good at rejecting him by now. 
 And he's good at rejecting you.  You're really good at doing that with each other.
 So you're scared, too.  Aren't you?
 And why isn't he scared?  He's terrified, probably.  Men tend to be more scared of this in women.  They know how to stop these women (ph).
 I think so.  You haven't reached over and touched him for four months? 
 Isn't that a way to live with him (ph) for the next 31 years?  I'll wait for you and you'll wait for me in 31 years of misery, huh?  You want that?
 Whoever makes the first move is the one who's most dissatisfied.
 You could make a move tonight if you wanted to.
 Make a good move. (laughs)(murmurs)
 I'm not a woman.  I can't tell you exactly.  But you could make a move to him tonight that he would not reject.
 Why wouldn't you?  He's your husband?  It's perfectly legal?
 You say you don't have anyone else?  So you may as well try it with him. (sighs)  I mean, would sure (inaudible 00:25:24) a lot of difficulty if you could figure out how to do it.
 This improving your marriage?
 I know.
 No, it doesn't have to happen first, but it's the easiest thing to take care of.  It's like easier than taking a trip to Japan and things like that.
 You might get that.  If you plan it.  Buy the tickets.  Check his schedule.
 No, you can ask him.  He wouldn't say, "No".
 When was the last you asked him to do something really outstanding and he said “no” to it outright?  You haven't asked.  You're certain to tell me you haven't done much.  You're not very aggressive in this relationship that's so unhappy.
 Isn't it… (crosstalk)
 Isn't it—Isn't the inside attached to the outside?
 That ain't… (crosstalk)
 …gonna help your marriage.
 Okay.  Well, I'm willing—I think you've come to a really good point.  That's good.  What is gonna help you in here?
 He may never do it.  And that's the truth.  He may never do it.
 Not necessarily.  It may be long since he's so scared to make the move.  Somehow what you've sent each other's message and you've got each other real frightened.  And now you're stuck in this fear.  You don't feel each other, yell or scream.  You just sit in this fearful thing, "My God, what if I make a move, he'll reject me?".  And he says, "My God, what if I make a move, she'll reject me?"  Someone's gonna break it.  And I'm suggesting you.  If he were around, I'd say exactly the same thing to you.  No, I'm not picking on you.  But you're the one I'm counseling.  I'm not saying it has to be a sexual move.  It has to be a move, though.
 I wouldn't say anything to him.  I'd do something.  I think, at this point, talk isn't gonna work.
 Do something.  Some demands should do the thing.  I don't know what it might be. (sighs).
 But sex is on his mind, I'll tell you that.
 Uh-hmm.
 Yeah.
 If he's having sex with somebody else, the marriage is over.  So we have to assume he's not.  And you're 45 and you're nice-looking.  Divorce him and find someone else.  Your kids are gone, anyway (ph).  If that's what's going on, get rid of him.  But if you want it with him, you have to go in the assumption like I'm saying that he wants it with you and doesn't know how to get it.  I don't see why it should be any different from you.  When I asked that question, initially you looked at me like I was really from outer space.  And so I have the feeling you're right.  He doesn't have someone else.
 Well, unless you wanna change your tune all together now?  Your tune was certainly different before.  You look at me as if, "My God, what right did he got to ask that question.  You hardly know me."  Well, I don't have to know you to ask questions.  I'm you're psychiatrist.  So, if you want to talk about the possibilities with someone else, then confront him and ask him.  But I think it could cause worse trouble between you if it's not so.  I don't advise it.  I mean, is he running out at night to make phone calls?  I mean, is there anything like he's obviously—very hard for a woman who lives with the men as long as you have for him to change his life to the point where he's having some kind of a sexual relation with another person and not get some kind of a hint about it?  The man usually even sends a hint to kind the tell you, “See, you're not good enough, babe.”  Now, if you could be getting all sense (ph).
 Yeah.
 No.  You don't have to do anything.  Maybe you can live with thir—next 31 years miserable.  I mean… (crosstalk)
 If you want something more from him, my guess is: you're gonna have to make the move.  He's more scared than you are.  Otherwise, he would have made the move.  You've at least made the move to come to see me —which is a very sensible thing.  This could have gone on even longer.  Now, at least, you're gonna find out.  And you're scared of that, too.  You can make the move and get rejected.  It could happen.
 Then, at least you'll know where you stand.  Get a divorce.
 Sure you could.  You've been “divorced” already for four months.  Just like this.  You said you live separately.  (inaudible 00:31:19) (pulling a chair) The dog can still walk (ph).  Could you (inaudible 00:31:21) marry and divorce (ph)?.
 Not necessarily.  If the husband—If you get a really nice thing for your husband and move toward him a little bit and he rejects you, you got at least 30 really good years left if you wanna use it.  Find someone else.  It's not impossible.  I don't think that's the case.  But why not find out now, rather than your father's finding it out maybe later and he's a miserable man.  Should have done something different when he was younger?  You could do the same.  You could do something different now.  If I'd seen your father 30 years ago, I would've said, "Oh man! What are you screwing up your life for?"
 I don't think he was the world's happiest man from what you tell me.
 Okay.  Well, you're not either and neither is your husband?  So why repeat that scene?
 Okay.  But your mother didn't do anything.  So, maybe gave up living. (sighs)  The psychiatrist's tough stuff.  You're coming here just to chat.  (indistinct sound)
 I don't know.  She died very young.  People have died very long (ph).  Sometimes, get sick and don't really have the (inaudible 00:33:07) and tremendously unhappy and those things happen.  She died at 40 years, 45 years old.
 Okay.
 I don't know.  Could have been a total coincidence.  But whatever it is, your mother was unhappy.  And had she lived—should she live ‘til today with your father, which she very well couldn't, would you predict that those next few years would have been unhappy those (ph) next 37 years?
 Okay.  So, I'm not saying your mother killed herself from (inaudible 00:33:43) being spooky around here (ph).  All I'm saying is that she wasn't looking forward to a very happy life at that stage of the game.  You don't have a brain anuerysm.  You have the capacity to do something with your life.  You wanna travel.  You wanna have a good relationship.  You wanna have many things.  The only one who can do anything about it is you.  And you can, if you want to.  'Cause what you have to do is not that hard.
 No, Linda.  You don't have to do anything.  I'm just pointing out, if you wanna be happy, you have to do something.
 Yes.  Good to say it.
 Yeah.  Yeah.  Because if you do nothing and he does nothing, then you have what you have, and you know what that is, and that's what you come in for.  So, I could see you from the next 30 years, you'll be giving me the money that would go with the deal.  Yes.  We'll start today.  (inaudible 00:34:49) does not to (ph) take a hundred years.
 Not necessarily.
 Yeah.  It might not be a bad idea but it's up to you. (sighs)  I can't tell you exactly what to do, but you have to make a gesture to him which says—What's his first name?
 “Ron, look.  Let's get together again.  Let's stop screwing up our lives.  I think you'll be happy to hear from him.  And you'll cry, rub each other and it'll be a marvelous thing.  And if it isn't, you gave it a good try.  I don't mean anything nasty, no second things.  I mean, you might have to make a couple of gestures.  He might be so asleep but it takes a couple.  Why not?  What have you got to lose?  You've got nothing now?  And then if you told me, I have a great life which is (inaudible 00:35:46), I wouldn't talk like this at all.  But you made the very point of saying, "Hmm, my life's no good.”
 I'm trying to. (sighs)
 Of being rejected.
 Well, there's another way to do it.  And I don't know.  I don't think it's as good as what I'm suggesting. (sighs)  You could write it out on a piece of paper and give it to him.  Tell him to read.  Could all be done on a couple of pages.  Just lay it out and say, "I'm scared and you're scared.  And I wanna love and you wanna love me. (sighs)
 Right.  If you wanna write something out like that, you really spend some time on it.  I've (inaudible 00:36:44) over with you and talked to you about it. (sighs)
 Yeah.  The confrontation wouldn't be so sudden.  Yeah.  Give him that chance.  So if he ever go away for awhile or a day or two, overnight or a show or convention or something… (crosstalk)
 Fishing?  When does he gonna go fishing?
 Well, I mean, just—is it like soon?  'Cause I think that would be a marvelous thing to send away fishing for him.  He'd have really caught a fish on that expedition.  (sighs)  You could even make a little fish on the outside.  “Here's the first one, Darling.” (laughs)
 Well, I mean, you can draw a picture of a fish in the outside.  Then he opens it up and there's the message.
 Yeah.  You could do it.  (laughs) What I mean, you know where to put it out again (ph).
 But now we're talking about something definite.  I mean, see, you are creative.  That was a real good thing.  I mean, I'm pushing here, but write him a note when he goes fishing sounds pretty good.  Now you'd be hangin' there, you'll have to wait for the answer.
 Yeah.  Goes with your children (ph).
 Sure, he has some capacity for love and affection if teenage boys are close to him.  That's a good sign.  Very sign of a very good man.  Very unlikely for man like that to be having an affair with another woman—just the indication that the boys are close to him.
 The boys would like to be closer to you, too.  But he maybe sending a message “Don't be close to your mother.  You can't trust her.”  I mean, all kinds of crazy things go on when people reject each other.  Then they end (ph) competitive over the kids… (crosstalk)
 Too late for them?  Never too late, why?
 If they see you and him getting along, you'll be excited with them.  They want that as much as anything.  "The best thing parents can do for children, is love each other."  That's—Catholic priest said that in Chicago about 20 years ago.  I've never heard anything better.  Why don't you do this?  Being miserable in another few days is okay.  It's not that miserable.  Handle your father however you think is best.  That's up to you.  You'll do okay no matter what you do.  Write up something that you would communicate to your husband what you want, but you got to make it very affectionate as possible.  It can't be second-guessing.  And it can't be like if you don't do exactly as I want, it isn't gonna work out.  You got to lay yourself open to be hurt a little bit.  And if it hurts you real bad, I'll help you pick up the pieces.  I'm good at that.  But I don't think it's going to.  I think just what I said a long time ago, he's more scared than you are.
 I'm speaking from a long psychiatric experience.  I'm an old psychiatrist.  I'm just almost as old as your father.  But I'm not mean like him.
 Give it a try… (crosstalk)
 …Give it a try.  Just—first, just between you and me.  And if I read at night, kindly say, “This isn't gonna work out.”  I'll tell you.  So you're risking really nothing—at least, to go that far of writting it and showing it to me.  And it'll help you focus your ideas.  Okay?
 You'll really interest him.  I mean to see what you'll write.  I see people once a week.  You're a busy woman.  You walk the dog and everything.  Take a week on this.  Do you write on the computer? (indistinct sound)
 Okay.  Doesn't computer help you edit and (inaudible 00:41:10) like this.  What are you gonna do, though—this thought just occurred to me, if he sees you write and what are you gonna tell him?
 No.  He probably won't do that.  But he might see you writing something?
 You aren't thinking (ph)… (crosstalk)
 Uhm.  Okay. (sighs) Okay.  I was thinking you might tell him something kind of fib but kinda true, “I'm writing a note for you to take with you the next time you go fishing.”
 Well, that's up to you, but I think it would be kind of interesting.  You may as well let him have a little of this stuff that you're going through, too.  If he—only if he'd ask.
 We're saying—You say, “I'm thinking of writing a note to you to take with you the next time you go fishing.  But I don't know what to say, that's why I'm sitting here.”  I mean, just be a little creative.  I mean, it's life.  I mean, you know, you're capable of laughing.  You smiled a few times in this interview.  The basic thing in life if you get it right down doing this is to have a little laughter everyday.  And you're not having very much right now.
 Okay. (sighs)  Alright there (ph), Linda.
 I'm trying. (laughs)  Okay.  Shake hands.
 See you next week.
 Alright. (hands clapping)
 Okay and this is all blind to who it is, they don't know who you are or who I am.  
 They're just interested in what goes on.  Um, okay, I saw you, oh we stopped everything.
 We stopped everything and that was a year ago or almost a year ago.
 That was [DATE], so let's go back to that moment.  Can you believe it's been a whole year?
 A lot of stress over [DEIDENTIFIED].
 A lot of work.
 But it's finished.
 A lot of work.  Your appetite is okay, you're sleeping with the Ativan 0.5, your energy is good, self esteem good, not suicidal, not irritable, not sad, not anxious, concentration fine, efficient, you thought you were in full solid remission and since you were doing so well, we stopped the Topamax which was the final piece of it.  We had actually stopped the Lexapro a year before that so this was the final bit of it.  We stopped the, uh, Topamax is a mood stabilizer and an appetite suppressant and, you know, blah, blah, blah.  We kept you on Ativan [INAUDIBLE].  All right, how has the year been?
 Congratulations. 
 All right and as you know, I've been somewhat involved, you know, I've certainly been in touch with her.  Let's hold that for a moment and let me just collect my data.
 To make sure that we're on the same page about you doing well.  In general, your mood is okay?
 You get into a state?
 Anxiety is about her health?
 Going downhill and you having to live without her.  
 And you losing her?
 I mean is that what the anxiety is about?
 And then how long did that last?
 But during those two weeks, you were pretty sad most of the day most days? 
 You were in a state.
 And trying to be as supportive as you could while, yknow -
 Managing the doctors and, yknow -
 Oh, she's back here?
 When did it settle down?
 Why did her gallbladder rupture?
 [INAUDIBLE] it burst, that's -
 Crept up.
 Which is why it burst.
 Well, there's a triage system.  She was -
 Emergent, an emergency.
 It's nice to know they can when -
 The incision up here shouldn't be as bad as down there.
 Blood supply is flowing better.
 It's [INAUDIBLE].
 All right, so of course, you're so enmeshed with her or attached to her -
 That it's hard for your mood to not be [INAUDIBLE].
 And to -
 Why, because they on their watch she got that sick -
 And so -
 It counts against them if, right.
 Right and she's such a people pleaser that she would feel compelled to [INAUDIBLE] -
 It's probably just overwhelming to her to have to engage someone.
 Well she got a real psycho on that one.
 You know, there was a moment a few months ago when things were looking good, yknow.
 The weight had come off and you were, yknow, forward looking and -
 She didn't want to go back to the rehab?
 They were right though, she could not, you know -
 It would have overwhelmed you.  [INAUDIBLE] -
 They pulled her off her meds, I think, too.
 It affected her mood.
 All right.
 So it seems reasonably normal.  Yknow, things happen, like people die, broken hearts, you know, life happens and people fall into a state but people with mood disorders, sometimes the state persists beyond where it should persist so we know you have a touch of a mood disorder and we know you've had a rough time lately.  We have to see whether the state that you fell into is persistent in a depressed kind of way, so would you say you're back to normal mood wise?
 Meaning that what percent of the day would you say?  Fifty percent?
 When you were in the throws.
 But the real question is, are you digging out of it?
 Are you able to get pleasure?
 You enjoy the dog.
 Do you go for walks?
 Do anything else that you enjoy?
 Well, do you watch TV, do you read?
 You do and do you get pleasure?
 When you're with her, do you get a few laughs?
 You're able, I mean do you ever get a belly laugh?
 Okay, so you have the capacity.
 You can enjoy things.
 What's your appetite like?
 So how anxious have you been?
 So you've been living in an anxious state?
 Like most of the day you've been -
 Knots in your stomach.
 And are you digging out of that?
 Have you been using any Ativan?
 And it helps?
 The appetite is low because you're worked up.
 Are you sleeping?
 Do you take Ativan every night?
 And you get to sleep, you stay asleep and you wake up when you need to?
 Why is that?
 Any suicidal thinking?
 Do you feel hopeless or helpless?
 Overwhelmed?
 Mostly about her?
 Yeah.
 How is work going?  Things had been unstable there.
 So they contract to you for the production and so you definitely have the contract for next year.
 Right and that'll be fine so you won't have to hustle for work.
 This year, you've got to keep -
 Unless you fire people or give people a temporary leave.
 When is the next season, when does the next season start?
 You've got to fill up now until Christmas?
 And you guys are not that busy.
 And there's work to do through the taping or do you kind of get everyone ready and then -
 There will be a few months that the bosses will have to suck it up.
 And pay people.  They shouldn't curse people who take their vacations at that time then -
 Are you able to?
 It wouldn't be a fun vacation -
 You're a great employee.
 Well you come at a tough moment because you clearly fell into a state.
 And you clearly, the trajectory is you coming out of it, but yknow, you have a style where you minimize a little bit and I wonder if you really are coming out of it.  I wonder if you need some help getting out of it.
 Well, have you made your decision that you'd like some help medication wise or would you want to give it a little more time?
 We can go to anything.
 Lexapro helped when you were on it?
 Because, how do I put this delicately, because her health problems are not finished, it would probably be advisable for your brain not to be so vulnerable to -
 As you have to grapple with this, yknow.
 And I'm not saying she's going to die.  I'm saying that -
 That was a bad traumatic memory and it looks like she's turned the corner -
 And she's doing okay and we're all going to hope for the best but she's got serious medical problems and this is very stressful on you both.
 It's not the time to tough it out.  For someone with a depressive illness and a vulnerability, this is time for the armor to be up and for you not to be so vulnerable.
 Well and so by going on medicine now, we're not saying that you're not coming out of it and wouldn't come out of it, we're almost not treating the state you're in right now, that's not why I'm giving you medicine, I'm giving you medicine because we want to make you less vulnerable to going into these states -
 At least for the next few months, or six months or a year, or however long because it's probably in your best interest.  So yknow we don't need to reinvent the wheel really.  Now you went off the, around January '06 you went off the Lexapro.  You had a good run.
 Your mood was okay through most of this.
 And it's only in the setting of these massive stressors that you fall into the state.  I think, you know, you were on 20 for a while but then the last six months or so you were on 10.
 I think we can go back to 10 and see how you do.
 And if we need to, we'll push it up to 20.
 You like Lexapro, right?
 It was fine, nothing, no problem.
 You've got all these fancy medicines, it's always fun to use different new exciting things but if something worked, we might as well just go back to it.
 Stick with a winner.
 Let's say partial remission of your depression, not all the way there.  And so, and this one, this will really nudge you back into normal mode.
 But most importantly prevent the next one.
 Were you able to concentrate?  Were you able to get work done?
 And a lot of your work is kind of hands on stuff so at least if you have a task in front of you, Well, now does it require intensive concentration?
 So you push aside those -
 That's what we call occupational therapy, yknow, there is a field of occupational therapy where they, yknow, in psych and for stroke victims, and people come in and they kind of do very -
 Knitting, all that stuff, and it seems to work, I don't know, it gets the brain distracted, I don't know what the right way to think about it but it's good stuff, yknow.  Yknow, your whole job on some level is occupational therapy, right?
 In a hands on -
 Are you bad at managing people?
 Firing.
 Do you need Ativan?
 And do you want me to write the prescription for 20 mg of the Lexapro and you break in half or just stick with the 10's.
 One a day of the 10's.
 Really?
 Well that's -
 Oh so you want to give her, slip her some?
 All right, well, I'll give you, I just wrote a prescription for the patient who was here before you.
 What'll I do?
 I've got to find one.
 Well maybe [NAME OTHER] wrote out another one.  I'll just leave this out here, let someone else deal with it.  I guess she'll call.    I gave her samples for a week so there's time.
 These are three weeks.  Those are three weeks of samples so -
 So you have time to get this filled.
 Lexapro, well actually by then, we'll know whether we want to go up to 20.
 So if you do, yknow, call me if things aren't quite right yet.
 And if we decide to go to 20, just remind us to call in a new prescription -
 So you won't use this one, you'll use the new one for 20.
 But this one I'm writing for 10 mg.
 Okay, so, we're working on the continuing moments of realization regarding your son's death. And we talked about a moment - a few days ago when you were driving and the realization of George's death hit you. And when you think of that moment, what picture comes up? 
 Okay. Earlier we talked about how every time you think of his death, its like: 
 What words would you rather have? 
 When you think of that moment in the car, how true do the words, "I can go on and thrive" feel on a 1-7 scale, with 1 being completely false and 7 being completely true?  
 So, right now, as you think of that experience when you were driving and again the words, "I can't go on living", what are the emotions right now for you?
 Okay. When you think about the moment in the car, how distressing is it on a 0 to 10 scale, with 0 being calm and 10 being the highest disturbance there can be? 
 Uh hmm.
 Where do you feel it. 
 Yeah.
 Okay, Bring up the image, the words "I can't go on living", and notice the sensations in your body, and follow my fingers. . (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Yeah, I know it hurts. 
 Let's take a break for a moment. Take a breath.
 And just tell me what you notice.
 Okay, let's just- just do it some more. I know it hurts. (EM)
 (continuing EM) Yes, I know it hurts. I know it's just the worst part. I know it's the worst part.........I know it's awful....... I know it's awful.. Yeah.... Yeah (in soothing tones).... Yeah, I know it's bad. (EM lasted 2 minutes) 
 Good. Yeah. Take a break. Take a breath. 
 Uh hmm.
 Uh hmm, okay. Okay, let's just go with that. Yeah. (EM)
 I know it hurts. I know it hurts. (EM)
 (in low, soothing tones)'Cause the feelings had been there long, been there long in your heart. (EM)I know it hurts.......Yeah........ I know it hurts.
 ) I know. Yeah. Good. That's right. Just follow my fingers. (EM)
 (continuing EM) Just follow my fingers. Good. (Eye movement for about one minute. 
 Uh hmm.
 Uh hmm. Go with that. (EM) 
 (continuing EM) I know it hurts. I know it hurts. I know it hurts. 
  (continuing EM) I know it's another one of the worst. I know that.  
 (whispers) Good.
 Uh hmm.
 Uh hmm. Go with that (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Uh hmm, I know. I know, (inaudible 00:09:41) awful, awful realization, is it. Just awful, I know. it's just painful, just painful....I know, it's painful. Yeah. Yeah. 
 (hands her more Kleenex). 
 Go with that. (EM) 
 What do you notice now?   
 Yeah. (EM) What's happening now? 
 Uh hmm. Go with that.  (EM) 
 Uh hmm. 
 (continuing EM) That's right.   
 Uh hmm.
 Hmm. Uh hmm. Hmm. Uh hmm. Go with that (EM) 
 Uh hmm. (EM) 
 Uh hmm. Go with that (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Yeah, I know. Okay. It still hurts  (00:15:38) 
 (continuing EM) Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. I know. 
 (continuing EM) Good. Good.  
 Water?
 Go with that.  (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Yeah. I know, I know. 
 What's there now? What are you noticing?
 Uh hmm. Okay. Go with that. (EM) 
 Uh hmm. (EM) 
 Good. (EM) 
 Uh hmm. Go with that (EM) 
 Uh hmm. (EM) 
 Uh hmm. Let's just keep on going. (EM) 
 Alright. Let's say, let's uh-- So, now- now, when you think of the moment when you were driving, the moment we where we started out when you were driving and there was just a sudden realization of his death. What's there now?
 Uh hmm.
 Uh hmm. Go with that. (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Uh hmm. 
 (continuing EM) Uh hmm. 
 It feels better. (sighs)
 Go on,  (EM) 
 Uh hmm, uh hmm. (EM) 
 Yeah. Go with that. (EM) 
   Okay.
 So, okay. So, let's go back to the moment we started with.
 And how is that now, when you think of that moment? The realization when you were driving out, how is that? 
 Uh hmm. And zero to ten, with ten being the absolute worst it could be. Zero would be calm and neutral. Not that you feel good about it but that you would feel calm and neutral. 
 Okay. Okay. Just notice that. (EM) 
 Okay. Just- just notice that. Just notice that. Okay? (EM) 
 Uh hmm, let's just go with that. (EM) 
 Okay, good.
 Good, so when you think of-- When you think of George, how is that now?
 Uh hmm.
 Yeah. Yeah, of course. (EM) 
 (continuing EM) Yeah. 
 Yeah. Yeah. Good. (EM) 
 Uh hmm.
 Okay, let's just go with that. (EM) Yeah. Uh hmm. Uh hmm. Uh hmm. Uh hmm. 
 Okay. Alright there, good. (EM) 
 Okay.
 When you go back to that moment in the car, How distressing it is now, 0 to 10? 
 Go with that  (EM) 
 When you go back to that moment in the car, How distressing it is now, 0 to 10? 
 Yeah.   
 Uh hmm.
 So the words are, "I can learn to live with this and it's honoring his life"? 
 Okay.
 Okay. Just put the two together and you can just think of that memory and the realization. And those words, "I can learn to live with this and its honoring his life," just put them together. (EM) 
 Okay. How true now, one to seven?
 That's alright. Okay. Okay. Good. Just stay with that. Uh hmm. (EM) Now, how true do the words "I can learn to live with this and it's honoring his life", one being totally false and 7 being totally true? 
  Go with that (EM)    Now, how true are those words, one to seven? 
 Uh hmm.  (EM) 
 Uh hmm. 
  Go with that (EM)    Now, how true are those words, "I can learn to live with this and it's honoring his life", one to seven?
 You're done. (chuckles) This is a good place to stop. (Counselor decides to skip the body scan because there is still some arousal, and he does not want to open up other associations.)  You did some wonderful processing, I know it was tough What was this like for you? 
 Yeah.
 Uh hmm.
 Yeah.
 Yes. Yes, there's something to be gained.
 Okay, that's the challenge of this, that as you move through this, there's something to be gained. Something that you can benefit from, grow from... 
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 And now you're realizing  what will come out of it is?
 Uh hmm.
 Uh hmm. Okay, it's wonderful.
 Yeah. (To the other therapist)  Do you have some comments on what you observed?
 Now you can think of George. You can feel closer to him and connect.
 ...because the pain isn't there. You could feel that connection there.
 See his smiling face.
 Hmm.
 That's right.
 Wonderful.
 Session number 7, Client number 0735-103, 1970.
 Like maybe having a really responsible job will change your whole outlook on life in a way that will be just really apparent.
 I guess one thing you're implying is maybe being treated like an errand boy and having a job that isn't responsible hasn't has had a pervasive effect on you. [03:08]
 The money isn't as important to you as being considered a responsible person or something along those lines.
 You like to have people looking up to you instead of having people looking down on you.
 So it's more like wanting to feel like you're making some progress, like you're getting somewhere. [05:42]
 Yes, he's mismanaging things and it comes down to affecting you.
 I guess it makes you feel down. Not as much for going out and trying to get a job when their interest in you trails off. 
 What did they find out that sets you to wondering? [09:00]
 The grades wouldn't be that much help to you.
 How do you mean that? You mean that you know too much about your liabilities?
 I guess you feel sad when you see yourself not living up to your knowledge of what your potential is.
 In the sense that, maybe if you didn't know so much about yourself you could sort of be more contented with the job you have, like, oh it's a really good job. You know you've got a pretty good IQ and it's set you to thinking, no this, isn't enough, this, isn't in my capabilities.
 I know it's not like you've thought about it constantly or something, it's not that kind of a thing, but it seems like it's been in your mind.
 How does that make for problems between the two of you then?
 Your finding out that she didn't do well on the IQ test?
 Is it kind of like you don't have a good opinion of her as you would have had?
 It's like it articulates one of the ways you were unhappy with her, wish she were different and better.
 I didn't think it was snide.
 I thought it was funny because earlier in the day I noticed that pack sitting up there and I said, oh yes I saved that, that's right. And then I forgot it again.
 Is that like you're curious about me?
 Both of you feel cheated. 
 And I guess she kind of resents you for it and you kind of resent her for it.
 Does it make you sad to think of that? 
 It makes you think maybe things could have been different. It's silly to think about it because things aren't different but it still makes you think about them.
 You sure could use a windfall.
 Sometimes.
 Do they make you nervous?
 It kind of like puts a damper on you and makes you think twice before you say something.
 I guess it's still in the back of your mind that tapes could be mailed to your wife. It's not impossible. [22:07]
 I guess it's like with the tapes, it's sort of like when something's possible, you can never be 100 percent sure that it's okay. Like you can't trust 100 percent that the tapes are going to be confidential because there's just that possibility.
 That outside chance is still a chance. [24:41]
 Almost like if you haven't got anything to worry about you'll figure something out. 
 Big mess.
 Things haven't quite yet settled down.
 You're irritated with each other. 
 I didn't quite follow all the implications of that. If the money isn't the only problem and just wanting to smash the car up and forget it.
 I guess you're much better now. Your problems seem to pile on top of each other, and on top of each other, and on top of each other, the thought of killing yourself seems like the only solution.
 Now when she says, oh you mustn't do that, you think maybe she's trying to pretend that it's out of caring for you. But you're thinking really she's worrying about the bills. 
 You see her as looking at you as you're someone to help with the bills.
 You see her attitude to you as you're just useful for getting the bills paid to her.
 It's bad enough that she doesn't seem to care about you and on top of it criticizing you about your salary and stuff.
 Like if you aren't important enough to them for them to give you a raise, well they're not going to be that important to you and you're going to enjoy demonstrating that sometimes.
 Yes, like when you don't get assigned responsibilities I guess it seems like they don't have that much confidence in your...
 It isn't the kind of thing you can do anything about.
 I guess it leaves you in a helpless position with him.
 I guess the thing is like you're a lab specialist and you would have expected that that really meant something before.
 It kind of eats away at you the way they just ignored what you want.
 I guess you feel that you deserve to be appreciated and you aren't being appreciated. [40:22]
 Like you're not respected at your job and you aren't respected at home and your wishes are disregarded at your job and your wishes are disregarded at home.
 Is it like your job and your home life, the way your wife treats you and the way you're treated at your job makes you feel like, what's the point? If I do something it won't be appreciated anyway. [42:57]
 I guess it's sort of like implicitly you're thinking why should I work for the church if they're going to react the same way? They're not going to appreciate me either. What's the point?
 It's not enough.
 Something came to my mind just like it really leaves a hole in you not being appreciated. Like there's really something missing in your life.
 You keep wanting it from somewhere and you think well maybe somewhere.
 Like in reality you think of the complications and what a mess it would be. But the feeling of needing something or wanting something is still there. [inaudible at 47:09] you're the number one person for someone.
 That tells you that she's all interested and excited about what's his name not about you. You're number two.
 It's like the [inaudible at 48:23] of what she has in mind.
 Have you ever told your wife that you don't think she cares about you really? [49:48]
 It sure doesn't look like caring. Maybe she thinks the other way. Maybe it comes across to her like you're annoyed with her for doing this and that instead of really being bothered by what she's doing as an indication of her real attitude towards you. I didn't say that quite right. Do you see what I mean?
 You feel she says it because she has to not...
 You don't like to see yourself getting that way.
 I think we should quit for today. Next Wednesday?
 One-thirty, three-thirty?
 Okay. You look like you're feeling a bit down.
 That happens to me sometimes the same way. Sometimes I'll be depressed without even realizing it. It's only when I start to talk about it and think about it that I'll realize that I've been depressed all along. 
 Yea. 
 Right.
 Right.
 Yea. 
 And your—or your folks were helping out for a while but that's—
 Oh.
 Oh, OK. [00:01:01] (pause) 
 Wow. I would think that's relatively good. 
 Right.
 Yea. Even for here.
 Well, very nice. I'm really sorry to hear that. 
 And at times in years past, I've had policies of sliding my fee and stuff. But honestly I've just sort of stopped doing that the last couple of years because my fee is really pretty low relative to a lot of people. I know it may not seem that way but it is. So I've like sworn myself up, down, and sideways that I just can't anymore.
 And the job, definitely you're moving.
 (crosstalk) (inaudible at 00:03:13) And then does the job involve health insurance?
 Yea. 
 Right. I mean, it probably wouldn't pay for Skype anyway. Most don't. But—well, some do.
 Right. (pause) [00:03:55] Well, I'll try to see if I can think of any other alternatives that other people are making use of. (inaudible at 00:04:10) think that I may or may not—like anyway, this is just related to the bill I just sent you that I made an error and not include the recording?
 Oh, OK.
 No, no. So I mean that's totally a separate issue that's just coming up in my head as I'm thinking of billing and stuff. So why don't you hand me your check and I will look over everything and send you another bill. 
 Sure.
 Yea. Let's do that.
 Well, I'm really sorry to hear that. 
 Yea. 
 Right.
 Hopefully not this way.
 Right.
 If you get the job in D.C., how soon would you move?
 Right.
 Right. 
 Right. All right, yea. I mean, one thing we should do is find a way to take more than just one more week to wrap things up. So let's assume we'll have at least a couple more weeks one way or another. [00:07:06] I won't charge you something you can't afford. But we should at least have time to say a more reasonable goodbye, I think, than this week and next week would allow. 
 So and even if I don't feel comfortable with like sliding in an ongoing way, I'm happy to do it to be able to arrange that. So let's plan on at least a couple of weeks after next week and I'll sort of—(pause) Yea, we'll see what happens with the job and when you'll be starting and we'll take that as a more provisional thing and we'll figure out what else we can do. 
 Does that seem reasonable?
 Yea. 
 Too abrupt.
 Yea, it took a few minutes for that to sort of settle in?
 Because it wasn't something else [you were thinking of] (ph) but—
 Yea. 
 Yep. 
 Yep.
 Right.
 Right.
 Well, what else is on your—what related to it on your mind? What have you been thinking about it?
 I assume this is the job you had mentioned last week, I think? Yea.
 Are you suggesting it might not be the answer to all of them?
 Yea. 
 Would the money be reasonable, likely for the new job?
 Yea. 
 Yep.
 Yep.
 [Well, that's too bad.] (ph) (crosstalk) 
 That's horrible. Yea, I know you were in saying last week that you'd been sick since you'd been back which you still have been. Yea, that's terrible.
 Absolutely, absolutely. 
 Yep.
 Sure.
 I see.
 Cup a coffee, yea.
 Yea, yea. 
 No, this doesn't sound sustainable.
 How so? I mean, like is it how well your mood has been in terms of like how bad you've been feeling about yourself? Like this ideality, other things?
 I see.
 Yea. 
 Yep.
 So what are the other feelings in your body? There's a waterlogged feeling of being sick.
 I see. It's more like a patch of quasi-normal state—
 —than it is something really actually more positive. [00:15:59] 
 It's always a tough call because on the other hand, then you'd be like making more money and—
 —you'd have more security and doing work you might feel better about.
 Yea. (crosstalk) I'm not saying it's like everything is great. It's just I'd imagine it can be good.
 Right. 
 Well, yea. [00:18:12] Yea, it sounds like you're dreading it that it could be like it was. 
 Well, I think it was a similar problem, wasn't it? Where it was unclear—I mean, I guess what I recall is you're struggling a lot with having thoughts of doing work that really felt like your own. And for you, now in a way, you could say whatever you were writing was much closer to your own sort of interests and thoughts than I imagine financial reporting would be. But I think at least some of what you're very anxious and struggling with was sort of in a similar theme? [00:20:05] Did it seem that way to you?
 Right.
 Right.
 Right. [00:21:00] Yea, the distinction is very clear there where I guess [it a fellow] (ph) can be much muddier. (inaudible at 00:21:15) (pause) And I guess—is part of the problem across the board the sense of betraying yourself by not writing about what you actually believe or what matter to you in either case?
 I see. I guess what I'm wondering about is the extent to which—back up—it seems to me part of the problem is there doesn't seem to be as much space for you in any of this. Whether it's trying to live on $4 an hour being part of the textbook writing and you're hoping that there will be a little space for you with the job in D.C., I think, being out of the area and in D.C. which is something, in something that you'll like. [00:23:05] In a lot of ways, but not always—
 —doing a job that sort of—that you would also—has probably clearer limits in terms of times than graduate school does. 
 And will provide you with more security. That will give you a little more breathing room kind of than you've had. 
 And you really don't have very much. And even if things do work out with this job, and I know they will, it still doesn't sound like a lot. 
 So it sounds like it would some humiliating (ph) things about it which I imagine part of what you're dreading.
 And part of what's making you feel depressed. (inaudible at 00:24:00) 
 Yea. 
 Yep.
 Yea. 
 What's he doing?
 Right.
 Yea.
 Right.
 Are you having much time to write now or recently? I mean, you (inaudible at 00:26:35) much about it or are you getting that much time on your novel?
 Good. (inaudible at 00:27:32) something?
 Yea. 
 And doing something that feels more like you. 
 Yes. Maybe (inaudible at 00:28:42) it could happen.
 Right.
 Right. (pause) [00:31:06] That's a pretty terrible compromise or do you think it's a better one in some ways?
 I don't know. I understand, I think, what you mean. I guess it wouldn't my diagnosis like you suck. [00:32:10] 
 That you're just simply unsuited to work because you suck. I think you do have a real vulnerability around feeling kind of alienated from yourself. That taking on the identity required to work causes you to feel or can cause you to feel in a very painful way. But I'm not—this might pin-point it—it doesn't look so much like you suck as—(pause) I don't know. Like that this has kind of something have been suffering with in which really the traumatic things that have happened and made worse. [00:33:18] I mean unquestionably what happened at the beginning of grad school like was not the only factor but contributed the way you were treated and the culture in the program to making things much more difficult for you than it otherwise would have been, I think. (pause) Yea and what happened to you before that sort of thing as well. 
 Yea. I hope, by the way, it occurs to me like you know when I did like—I hope you don't hear that as like a disguised or psychobabble-y or a fancier way of saying you suck. That's not how I'm seeing it but I guess I want to ask you whether that's how you hear it.
 I guess well, that's good. 
 I see that you've been thinking that a lot. 
 Yea. [It sounds good.] (ph) (pause) [00:37:03] (sneeze)
 Thanks. (sneeze) Thanks. (pause) Well, what else is on your mind?
 (blowing nose)
 Well, I guess you're really upset. It also occurs to me that, perhaps at times anyway, coming here has felt like another thing that you are doing kind of for yourself when it's sort of about you. And it's not quite the same way as writing that you'd imagined like in some fashion or another.
 And I wonder then if anticipating having to stop goes together with some of the other ways that you're feeling so boxed in. 
 Yea. 
 Right and not for some more clinical reason?
 Well, we should finish up for now. And so we'll be on at least for next week and a few weeks after that. And we will sort of sort out an ending next week for some time.
 Good luck again with your interview.
 Yea. Sure. 
 To condense down, [PATIENT NAME] has had difficult periods, difficult number of, two years, he was drinking heavily at one time and has had two suicide attempts and two hospitalizations in the past year.  The first he doesn't remember because of blackout, the second he took an overdose of Xanax.  He was treated at a place call the [DEIDENTIFIED], was diagnosed as being bipolar disorder, and treated with Risperdal, Depakote, Trazodone, and Effexor.  This left him drowsy and with an uncontrollable appetite from the Seroquel.  He left that facility on Effexor and Trazodone, went down to [DEIDENTIFIED] to a program there, found out the program was run by a group of scientologists who took his Effexor and Trazodone away and he's come back here for treatment.  He lives in [DEIDENTIFIED] and has lived in the [DEIDENTIFIED] prior to that.  These two events happened first with the death of his mother two years ago which triggered him into a depression and increased drinking and then one year ago his wife who was Russian, committed suicide after she gave birth to their child.  The suspicion is that she had post partum depression which was never treated and she finally killed herself.  How did she do that?
 She took muscle relaxers.  Well, let's see, one of the things I do is I get the patient to fill out a very extensive questionnaire about family history and all sort of other things, medical history, allergies and I have a symptom check list that they do.  And to me, at the present time, he has a symptom complex which is very compatible with bipolar disorder.  Looking at the questionnaire, looking at his answers to the following questions such as my brain never shuts off, I think about the same thing over and over without coming to any conclusion, my thoughts go so fast I can't keep up with them when I talk.  He loses his train of thought, that has to do with distractibility.  He feels on guard which has to do with action of fight or flight response.  He has problems focusing and concentrating, staying on task.  He has symptoms of a post traumatic stress disorder also.  He has emotional numbing.  He has trouble responding emotionally and physically during sex.  He feels empty inside.  He feels sad, has low energy, has the major depressive ache in his chest.  He loses control of his temper.  He has frequent [INAUDIBLE] nowhere.  He has bruxism.  He also has restless leg syndrome and this is off medications.  He finds himself shaking one or both legs when he sits still.  This has to do with the acuesthesia that sometimes is with bipolar disorder.  He checks that he has a hard time sitting still.  I actually give people the mood question, the mood disorders questionnaire and he scored 4 of that but that was significant in that he feels irritable, [INAUDIBLE] at people, starting fights or arguments, that thoughts race though his head, he's distractible.  He was diagnosed with ADD as a child and he still has symptoms like that.  He was referred here to the practice by [NAME OTHER] who is his cousin.  He's a high school graduate.  He works at [DEIDENTIFIED].  He's not drinking, right?  Are you attending AA?
 He's not attending AA, that's a bummer.  I have no history of [NAME OTHER].  Wife with suicide, medical history, [INAUDIBLE], okay.  And you live at, where do you live, do you live at home?
 Oh, okay, who do you live with?
 Okay, is that okay for you?
 Okay.  Where is the child?
 The child went back to Russia?
 Is that okay with you?
 Yeah.
 Why did you decide to do that?
 Uh-huh.
 I've got you, I understand.
 Okay.
 Right.  Bummer, what's your dad in prison for?
 Yeah.
 Is he bipolar too?
 Okay, so right now, if I'm reading this thing right, you've got a combination of anxiety and depression and sadness and probably a whole bunch of stuff that's sort of floating through your head that you'd like to get, that you can't resolve and some residual losses from everything just falling apart around you.
 And you probably miss a lot of people.
 Okay, how about suicide to you now?
 Yeah.
 What have you been on?
 Uh-huh.
 I got you on that.
 I understand that.  You have a good personality.  
 And bipolar.
 And bipolar.
 Hello, uh-huh, yeah, they supposedly did it yesterday.  You haven't picked it up, if you want to call them and tell them what you need.  Okay, bye.  Excuse me.
 That's my answering service.  I've got somebody in crisis so that was - 
 Sure.  Okay, who found her?
 You found her.
 Dead?
 Okay.  
 Okay.  All right, did the Effexor work for you?
 It is an antidepressant.
 Okay.
 So you don't know which one was raising your mood.
 That would help.  People who are bipolar - 
 Often times will have a real rapid response to antidepressants.
 And sometimes they even, they'll even switch into mania which is the danger.  
 But there's often that real rapid response with it but then sleeping would help too, getting your days and nights back on track.
 And you've been called ADD as a kid?
 What did it do?
 Did it do anything for you?
 You couldn't tell the difference?
 All right, you've got insurance?
 Okay, okay, okay, so I was going to call you something, we'll probably call you a mixed bipolar disorder with symptoms of anxiety and depression, anxiety, depression, and agitation and insomnia and attention deficit disorder, not really attention deficit disorder but distractibility.  Bipolar disorder and ADD often times are -
 Well they're close but they also, they even overlap sometimes but they're also, one is misdiagnosed with the other.
 Alcoholism is very much a major depressive disorder which mixes all in with this stuff.  Stress, deaths of wife, death of grandmother, separation of son, [INAUDIBLE] of your life.
 Death of mother?
 Yeah, moderate symptoms, okay.  Tell you what we'll do, let's do the Trazodone because that's working for you.
 Let's start on Effexor.
 Do that too.  Did the Risperdal help you?
 Do you remember how much you were taking?
 Okay.  Risperdal is a pretty good drug for getting things fixed right now, okay, but if you, I'm not sure which is causing you the most problems, the Risperdal or the Seroquel. 
 Yeah.
 Excitement, excitement, excitement.  Who are some of your cousins?
 Who are some of your cousins?
 Okay.  What else, who else is kin to you guys?  How does the family work, what other names in your family?
 Your mom's side is - 
 [NAME OTHER]?
 [NAME OTHER] is not kin to you guys?
 [NAME OTHER]?
 [NAME OTHER], okay, different one, okay.  So I'm going to give you some Trazodone 150, you better not take it all at once, it might knock you out, just try maybe to do 50 and then 75 and 100 and just take enough to make you sleep the first night and then if you need to go up, go up.  I'll give you some 100 mg tablets.  I going to give you 75 of Effexor and take one of those.  You might want to take it with food, it can sometimes make you nauseated at first, I don't know if you had that experience or not.
 Okay.  I'm also going to give you some Risperdal but a real small dose, about a half a mg and that usually does not cause any major problems, it just sort of takes the edge off a little bit and slows your brain down and takes the irritability out.  You take that at night and that will also help you to sort of settle in.
 Yeah, we're going to give you a bunch of stuff.  You might want to take the Effexor during the daytime and with food and then take the Risperdal and Trazodone at nighttime.  All right and the other one that I think might be helpful to you is Lamictal, that's a mood stabilizer, it's really an energy modulator.  You know, what you've got is just, like if somebody has hyperthyroidism, overactive thyroid, there thyroid is out of control and they just get wired from that, you've got a cellular energy problem, okay, and it's, what it acts like is it makes your fight or flight response turn wide open and when it does that, it activates other places also that shouldn't be regulated.  It messes up your ability to regulate your body to sleep and all sorts of other things and you've got some, it's hard to tell which is what because PTSD and bipolar disorder often times overlap a lot of times, especially if you've got sort of a mixed symptom like you do.
 So it's a lot of things that are mixed in with that, like emotional numbing, that's part of being really on guard kind of phase and it also starts, it over activates your brain and you can actually sort of hear, feel and hear and sense all the normal activation of your brain but it's not under the surface anymore, it's just going on like that all the time.
 And then you've got a whole bunch of memories that can't get finished.
 They just keep being replayed and replayed and replayed and replayed and a lot of reliving of stuff.
 Sure, I understand that, I understand that but if you do that, you've got to blame the illness which makes people mean as hell and makes them not have good judgement and makes them say things they wouldn't say normally when they get really teed off and if you mix alcohol in on top of it, you can really get a devils mixture because then you've got loss of control, loss of, loss of good sense and then you get the same thing with a hangover as you can with intoxication. 
 But this will help you sort of, this will help the process and it's called Lamictal, it's an anticonvulsant or mood stabilizer, it's used for lots of things.  It's used for bipolar disorder, it's used for seizure disorders, it helps restless leg syndrome, it'll help that too, it'll help bruxism, it'll help Raynaud's, do you have cold hands and cold feet?
 You do.
 Cold feet.
 How about migraine headaches?
 One sided headaches or do you ever have things like sparking lights or anything like that?
 Or a feeling of a headache, no, okay, this also helps migraines too in bipolar people.  It helps with sensory overload, you know, like noises get to you and smells get to you, things like that, it'll help focus and concentration too because it stops the fight or flight response, it cuts it down, it does it slowly, it won't happen all at once but it'll gradually slow down and what you have to do with it is to go slowly with it, like 25 mg once a day for two weeks and then 50 mg once a day for two weeks and then you can go up to 50 or go up to 100 and it's going to take anywhere from about 100 to 200 mg in the average person to stabilize them.  The whole process lasts about three weeks, okay, so what you'll feel is like a gradual slowing down and as that happens, you'll sleep better, your anxiety will get better, your downloading of memories will get better, all those sorts of things.  Now the thing you've got to watch out for is it can cause rashes in people and there's a debate about what percentage of people have rashes.  I don't think it's that much, probably about 3-5% of people will have it.  It's a real small rash that starts off that looks like poison ivy or poison oak with red dots on it and it'll get better.  You can sort of a diffuse rash.  You can actually get localized rashes.
 Okay, you have eczema?
 Well this would be like, like small dots on your skin all over the place, I've seen that happen but most of it is like poison ivy, just like itching and burning kind of stuff, little red dots that come together and then they'll get sort of a raised area, sometimes they have blisters but if you get any kind of rash that gets worse, okay, any kind of angry looking rash that gets worse, then you need to stop it.
 When they first used the drug in '94, they used too much of it and they used it on top of a drug called Depakote which you took before, which the two compete for metabolism so if you're giving somebody 2000 or 3000 mg a Depakote and they dumped on 300 mg of Trileptal, they just would get toxic levels of Trileptal, Lamictal and actually, double it, so it would be about 600 mg immediately and what happened with that, they had some called Johnson's syndrome which is really a bad rash but they had a problem that they couldn't drop the dosage of anything because they might precipitate seizures.
 And then the Lamictal just sort of stayed in the body because they had such a high level, you know, so it created a problem, some of the people died but since that time and of course that was years and years ago, but since you've been going slowly, 25, 50, and 100, there's not been really any kind of major problems with that, because if you stop it, it goes away and I'm sure somebody's had some problems but I've not heard of it and I've not seen any myself, okay, and I think it's one of the better ones because it doesn't mess up your thinking as long as you stay with it.  If you get too high of a dose, it'll mess up your memory a little bit but as long as you stay within range, it works, it doesn't make you gain weight, it doesn't make you lose weight, it doesn't interfere with your thinking or your memory, it's just a very clean drug, you know, and if you can take it, it's probably the best one, it has really good effectiveness and really good efficacy, effectiveness I guess you call it but again it takes a while to get up the dosage.
 We just gradually go up, gradually.
 Have you been to any AA meetings?
 Okay, why?
 All right.
 You're still drinking?
 All right.
 All right.
 Okay.
 All right.
 All right.
 All right, I understand.
 We're going to, okay, I really think that you've got, among everything else, you qualify for post traumatic stress disorder too and at some point in time, we're going to need to revisit therapy about that, psychotherapy or something like that, right now, I think it would just create more problems to stir up the pot right now, so I don't think it's a good idea until you stabilize out.  So we'll wait a little bit on that until you're more stable. 
 Yeah and all that kind of stuff.
 I know, in therapy though.
 We'll wait a little bit on that.
 All right.  And there we are.
 Call me if you feel suicidal.
 Anything happens, okay, I've got an answering machine which is, I've got an emergency service and that's, let me give you a copy of that, I don't have a card here, this is the number of the emergency services.
 And you can call the [DEIDENTIFIED] too if you need to.
 And that'll put you in touch with them.
 Good.
 Yes sir.
 How's your dad doing? 0:00:52.2
 turn it on, okay, let's get ready for this.
 got a cold?
 [chuckling] or the lack of it.
 or the lack of it.
 what is this? Number 18?
 18.
 um-hum
 Yeah. He's not actually on the staff here, but he's involved in a program that some of us here are involved in, with your employment service.
 um-hum
 Flat pictures. They're not three dimensional. 
 You're out of sequence. 0:05:15.7
 Jumping into what? An involvement? 0:07:14.6
 Can't really get into anything.
 Chicken shit about what? 
 It didn't really affect you is what you are saying, huh?
 Do you feel beat?
 No Tuesday [inaudible] for anything.
 Yeah, a non-involvement.
 should you? 
 maybe you should just wait for her to call you.
 Like it or not is that what you are saying? She's going to call me.
 After you told her you loved her. 0:15:23.9
 As soon as she could come.
 Why not? How does that feel?
 Giving up?
 Yeah.
 Like you were the ninny.
 About being a ninny.
 No.
 Why?
 Can't get out what's really bothering you, huh. 0:22:48.4
 Yeah, well it sounds like last night anyhow you felt really inadequate in the face of all those professionals around you. You weren't on the-
 - level of par with them.
 All because you were at this seminar instead of graduate school, hum.
 Above or below the nurses?
 But still not up to where you'd like to be. Like lower middle but below all the other men, huh? You may be above the women but not above any of the men.
 What do you mean?
 alright well let me put the question to you another way. Was there any man there that you felt than you were better than?
 Well evaluate it right now.
 More adequate in anyway that you want to define.
 Not tenth huh?
 You can think of someone who is below you.
 Yeah but that's not what counted according to what you're saying or what you are thinking about last night.
 socializing, it's being professional. No?
 Who the fuck expects you to be able to lead a group on the first night that you are meeting about how to lead groups?
 yeah.
 I know you didn't.
 I'm forcing you to now.
 pointing it out. Go on.
 With out even knowing these people.
 schmuck. 
 schmuck.
 so in other words the psychologist is correct and you are wrong. 0:28:38.2
 Who said that she is getting bombed?
 Or when they take it away you really feel shattered. 0:35:51.7
 Is that true? You can take care of the extraordinary things but the common things throw you.
 The day to day stuff?
 [inaudible - overlapping talking]
 [inaudible] you're so full of attitude.
 You don't feel like doing anything.
 Because you don't enjoy what you are doing.
 wait a minute I don't understand what you're saying. 
 Yeah why not. Why you don't you believe you can do anything.
 Well it's kind of too late to worry about her anyhow. Isn't it?
 But it is you who has to change. 0:44:19.0 
 Yeah but not unless you want to I guess. 
 Yeah, what are they?
 Why do you want to weigh 170?
 Such a good life you want to live longer huh?
 Are those your goals? Are those you want to do? Run faster? Play tennis better? Not have your [inaudible] show over your swimming trunks. Have a wide selection of clothing?
 No I asked if that is what you want to do.
 Okay but what are the important things you do. Is that the most important thing?
 What is?
 Yeah.
 And where is loosing weight for them to loose too?
 Yeah but that's not what your talking about. You are talking about useful to other people.
 So is loosing five or ten pounds going to do that for you?
 Let me suggest to you that instead of looking at five or six or how ever many things that are [inaudible] that you want to do. It may pay to try to focus in on one or two. Which you can really focus on and work at instead of having five or six that you can't work at. Its like the more things you want to do, maybe the less you can do in any of them. And maybe if there's just a few things you'll be able to do them. 0:48:52.9 
 Now look that you're ultimately going to be able going to do all those things. 
 Yeah but the point is that maybe you know the best way operate is to work on one thing at a time and when you have a list of a 100 things that's overwhelming. Who the hell can do 100 things at once?
 Well I don't know anybody who can, you're no different.
 But you're not. So you can't.
 So let's widdle the list down some more.
 Don't say should. I don't believe in should. 
 And be useful at the same time. [phone ringing] Hello, huh. Okay. No. No. Okay. See you when what ten? Bye-Bye. Okay well the words I am going to leave with today are why the hell do have to do five things at one time if you can't do them, why not one thing at time. 0:50:45.6
 And one for the next time.
 Yeah but see you know you're doing it now. You're taking not only are doing individual therapy, now but you are taking two courses in group therapy.
 Why do you spread yourself out like that?
 And now there Kathleen, there too. Maybe it's because you are afraid to go after any one thing afraid that it won't work out.
 But it will, if you give yourself a chance. Stop being so afraid of yourself. You think you have to loose weight.
 yeah but that's not [inaudible] in my mind, see?
 Not quite yet. You ought to be jealous of guys like us, we don't worry about our weight. 
 See you Thursday. 
 Okay see you then.
 On old fool's day.
 April 1st.
 Yeah, we have to.
 So, what's up?
 You were doing the diet drug?
 Oh.
 They wouldn't give you that?
 Oh, my God.
 Well, you didn't eat much during that anyway.
 You don't want to do it.
 Mm.
 You're right, so.
 Oh.
 Bikers?
 Oh, Jesus.  How did you get out?
 Pulled you out.
 Yes, well -
 My wife does that.  If we go do something for two days -
 I can expect her to be down the last, when we come home.
 You don't know how many times I've heard that this week.
 The news is horrible.
 I agree.
 And pull us out of there.
 Right.  We just have more exposure -
 Yeah, you would know what was going on from there.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Well it's going to continue.  The terrorists, it's scary.
 Don't forget all these people that are doing stuff to little kids.
 We didn't see that every day.  You didn't used to see that all the time.
 Yknow?
 Oh, that's great.
 That's a lot.
 Find a job down there and move.
 Change the greedy people.
 But you can try.  You can do it.
 Then you won't have to come see me in [DEIDENTIFIED].
 [DEIDENTIFIED], you can live down there.
 It's not, well, to here.
 I came from [DEIDENTIFIED] last - yesterday morning because I was with my daughter.
 It took me fifty minutes to get here.
 Yeah.
 Oh, yeah.
 [INAUDIBLE] I've seen the applications.
 You have to consider that nowadays.  But there's a lot of building down there and I think it's still cheaper.
 It's giant, sprawling -
 You could actually work anywhere from [DEIDENTIFIED] to [DEIDENTIFIED] if you lived there.
 No.
 True, true.
 Well, pointing out that there's a lot of depressing stuff around us, yeah.
 Yeah, well, that's very stressful, too.  You'll try to minimize it while they're here, but I know from my own experience, it is stressful.
 Oh.
 Oh, geez.
 That's not too bad.
 No, I mean, you're actively looking into it.
 You have a good reason to move south -
 That's down in [DEIDENTIFIED] though, right?
 I asked this graduating high school kid today, he said I don't want to go to school right now.  I says what do you want to do?  He said well, I'm interested in cinematography.
 Right.  I mean, you better start looking for jobs at a TV station.
 No.  He didn't even, he didn't even have any idea, yknow.
 They're very selective.
 Yeah.
 Anyway, you're right, you gotta try.
 Well, when will that happen?
 Oh.
 Yeah, 'cause I think all you gotta do is tell yourself, uh, come May I'm gonna start looking and if something comes up, I go.
 You don't have to stay until the end of the year.
 Well, you got people there.
 Nine weeks is a long time.
 [INAUDIBLE] do that, yeah.
 [INAUDIBLE] house, right?
 Yeah.
 Well, you still got 'em, yknow.
 There's lots of other stuff.
 I don't think so.
 Well, when did we start it?  November?
 Well, you can stop it and see.
 That's the ultimate - but that is the ultimate test, but.
 You took it actually last spring and summer.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Hmm.
 Nah, nah, they might come up with something.
 Well, it will be so.  They're very big things.
 Yeah.
 Probably anyway, you ought to take a little time and look at the housing down there.  You'll have that in your head.  And then see what jobs might be there.
 You could do a lot of different jobs.
 Right, but  those who adapt to the change best are the winners.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Sure. [ 00:01:04]
 Hmm.
 Okay.
 I see.
 Gotcha.
 Yeah. So some combination of voice and gesture.
 It's talking.
 Okay.
 I see.
 Okay.
 I see.
 Right. [00:02:21]
 Mm hmm.
 Mm.
 Ouch! [00:04:01]
 Hmm.
 Hmm. (pause) Well, (pause) I guess, um, (pause) on one hand I would imagine, uh, you might appreciate being reassured about not being a narcissist. On the other hand...
 ...to the extent that—which I'm happy to do. To the extent that you're, um, kind of wanting that from me, which is a fine thing to want, it does (pause) it doesn't address what I think is the deeper concern which is that it's hard for you to have a confident and sort of stable sense of these things, such as you are not a narcissist yourself. In other words (pause) if he, ya know if he says narcissist, you hate yourself for it. I say not a narcissist and it helps—which is good—but the real problem it seems to me is that—and this is not something I'm blaming you for, it's just descriptively the thing that seems to be difficult and painful in this, results from—for whatever reason, which at the moment is at least not clear to me—um (pause) it's uh (pause) yeah I guess it's that you don't have a kind of more confidence of these things about yourself to start with or something...or are kind of. [00:07:46]
 Okay.
 I follow, yeah. [00:09:13]
 I see. Yeah, um, what matters is how it seems to them. However, uh different from, ya know, what's actually going on it may be.
 I have a question.
 Um, you said initially that I guess (pause) you said initially that this related to your like boundless self-loathing.
 Okay, I mean my...
 ...mostly about that. The reason that I bring it up is this...
 ...um, he says you're a bit of a narcissist. You hate yourself for it. My question is if he had said, ya know, oh you're always really nice, or, um...
 My question is really (pause)...I mean it's sort of two different things looming large here. One is your self-hatred and the other is other people's perceptions of you.
 What I'm wondering is if he had said oh, you're always really thoughtful about people...
 ...would that have stuck to the same extent. Yes, okay. So if it...
 more like a...like in other words narcissist, it could be that that's sticking because of your self-hatred or it could be that that's sticking because it's just how somebody else sees you, and I'm trying to suss out which one you're saying is the dominant...
 Clearly.
 Clearly.
 I guess so.
 So you're saying kind of like that, uh, emotionally and in terms of your self-confidence you are so completely trashed inside...
 ...that whatever bad thing anybody says or whatever anybody says about, ya know, the 50 million great things you've done don't count, what I care about is the next hour, it really sticks with you cuz you don't really have like um any kind of solid internal sense of anything good to hang on to. Is that...?
 Uh huh.
 I see. [00:14:09]
 I follow.
 Yeah. Like (pause) you catch on to most things very quickly. That's pretty specific.
 Right. Or you always try hard to be patient with people even if they are not catching on quickly. Like that would be pretty specific.
 Right. [00:15:04]
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah. I understand. It reminds me of how you told me it can take a lot of effort and kind of energy to talk negatively in here, and that seems to me like a similar kind of risk.
 Sure.
 Right.
 Yeah. That was spontaneous. I mean this is like scheduled. You can prepare. You, ya know, have some practice at it in here. Like that was just kind of I guess off the cuff and under a lot of duress. [00:16:47]
 Mm.
 Yeah. I had sorta thought you are not narcissistic but because of all of the...there's a term, um,
(inaudible at 00:21:16) whatever like narcissistic injury which is sort of like ya know somebody steps on your birthday cake...
 ...or rains on your parade, or...
 ...and (pause) you're not narcissistic. What you are officially...
 That's alright.
 Right. Um, what you are is right now vulnerable to narcissistic injuries like that because you're self-esteem has been so beat up (pause) and (pause) I mean (inaudible at 00:22:09), I don't mind returning to that, but that's not at all the issue. I just...I think...I don't want to get away from what I think is the more underlying...
 Yeah, sure.
 Uh huh.
 Sure. [00:22:53]
 Mm hmm. [00:24:31]
 Yup.
 Yeah.
 Mm hmm.
 Uh (pause) to what extent do you think it came up yesterday, this feeling of being overwhelmed and frustrated because of the subject matter being charged for you? [00:28:32]
 Like what do you mean when you say you've have a few things in your life that shouldn't have been that way?
 What I mean (inaudible at 00:28:52) is I wonder if it was because what you were dealing with was to do with disabilities, which you have and which cause you a lot of difficulty and frustration and pain and so forth, that like maybe you had a kind of emotional reaction to the subject matter which would seem to me not unreasonable given the circumstances. But I don't know, maybe that wasn't it...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I'm sorry. Go ahead. I interrupted...
 Right.
 Yeah, of course it has to do with having been at the end of the day and being more tired and you health has been...
 I see. [00:30:12]
 Laughs. I'm surprised to hear that...
 Part of...part of it...I haven't heard you mention this, but I imagine you'd say you've thought of it, is like it seems to me that you mentioned and we've talked about the way you tended to rely on your intellect, which is very powerful and um has uh been of a lot of good use...
 Um...
 I, um, imagine when, uh, it's overwhelmed and you can't make use of it you react strongly to that.
 Like it's, ya know, one of the tools that you rely on the most.
 Hmm.
 Tell me. [00:35:05]
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm. [00:38:57]
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah.
 We're gonna stop for now. Um, we'll talk more on Thursday. One thing I wanted to raise is would it be easier to meet at a time that was later in the day during the week?
 Um...
 Yeah, sure. So I would say this would be true in general.
 Yeah, okay. Okay. So I regularly have 11:45 on Fridays. Is that any good?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Sure. So we'll meet on Thursday this week.
 And talk about it for the future.
 Okay, no problem.
 Sure. And so if it comes out that it turned out it would be better to meet then, just let me know before Thursday, otherwise...
 Because if that's not good, I'd probably find something else.
 OK.
 Getting what, cold?
 What does it feel like?
 (inaudible at 04:58) (laughter)
 But that's (pause), that's what my silence (ph), I guess, feels like to you, [there's an] indication that you're not doing well at this?
 Well, you feel this panic (pause) and then you (long pause)—I think you put it right back on yourself because (pause) maybe part of what you're panicking about is that you actually at that moment want something from me. [00:08:44]
 And I (pause) imagine what you want has something to do with what you're not getting from James either, to do with (pause) some kind of, like (pause), supportive or at least kind of recognizing (pause) response about what you said about how sad you feel. [00:10:17]
(silence)
 (inaudible at 10:46) that I'm OK.
 Yeah.
 Well, with all the exercise and the mindfulness, you know, we're on it.
 (inaudible at 13:50)
 And I wondered in the pause whether you wanted me to fix it.
 I get that it's difficult and kind of frightening for it just to suck.
 I think it's also scary right now. (Pause) [What I get as I think about it] (ph) (inaudible at 18:38) as always terrify you how bad things are.
 I guess the possibility is something that you're both (pause) having to live with.
 So you have this (pause) idea or fantasy about being free of these things so you could finally just do it, you know, you can finally just kill yourself, like...
 And you have the (pause) fear about it or the (pause) sort of just, like, the pain and (pause) knowing how it would affect James.
 You seem maybe a little queer (ph) talking about how bad it is or saying some things about how bad it is.
 Kind of sort of being today.
 That and you might also be settling in somewhat to James being here.
 You know, some of it may also be other work you've been doing here.
 And on your own in being a little more confident that (pause) everything and everyone won't go to hell in a hand basket if you're (pause), I don't know, (inaudible at 29:13) upset or just upset (inaudible at 29:17) like that.
 So, it seems to me you're doing two things at once (pause), one of which (pause) looks just like that, sort of having the fantasy that you are sort of more in control of this (pause) or you should be more in control of this.
 Like (pause) the idea that there's this sadness there like (inaudible at 33:47) and sometimes (inaudible at 33:48) sometimes not. Like (pause), that's crap. You know, I should be able to—this is the sort of I should be able to, like, (inaudible at 34:03), you know, and I'm so sad. It's not fair. I'm OK. There's not a huge moving thing under the water, under the surface, you know. I mean, I think at one level (pause), you know, that along with sort of your response to feeling helpless and like you should be able to have more control over this, you know, for the point that way.
But there's another way that I (pause) could hear what you said as well, which is really more to do with (pause) (inaudible at 34:49) skepticism, criticism, disappointment with me and with this. Like (pause), (inaudible at 35:01) maybe I was settling into this a little bit but let me just make it very clear that (laughter), you know, there's a part of me that's a lot like James.
 And well, you know, there has to be something that you can do. I guess we're doing what we're doing. I guess we're doing what can be done, you know, I don't think you're being (inaudible at 35:29) about it.
 It seems like it frustrates you that I'm reading something or I'm hearing something in what you said that you didn't mean, like I'm...
 (inaudible at 36:03), yeah.
 Think what you think, yeah.
 Maybe there's something that feels big] (ph) n fantasizing about my doing that or it feels like a bit of a (pause) knock.
 Not so much (inaudible at 37:34) patronizing you, but more I'm, like, it makes you feel like you're not as sort of on top of things as you want to be.
 Maybe there's...
 (inaudible at 39:15), like, maybe there's something actually a bit threatening about (pause) being taken care of in that way or feel (ph) to be taken care of in that way, where somebody interprets something about what you meant or picks up something that you meant when you meant that you didn't say directly or you weren't clear on yourself. (Pause) I guess I'm going into—yeah, go ahead (inaudible at 40:08).
 I guess what I'm wondering is whether you're really ambivalent about (pause) people being (pause) in tune with or clear about (pause) things about how you feel. I mean, in some ways maybe clear about things that might be easier to pick up from the outside. Let's say (pause) (inaudible at 40:49) for you that on one hand, you know, there's a kind of (pause), yeah.
 Well maybe both. Maybe there's a way that it feels like being taken care of could be really nice, but also...
 ...that it could be really threatening and it's always something you've done for yourself and it's never something you've been able to rely on people for. I mean, I'm probably exaggerating, but certainly growing up. And (pause), you know, like what comes to mind is, you know, somebody started doing your laundry for you in high school or college.
 That's what I mean, yeah. (inaudible at 41:38) damn dirty laundry (laughter). So, like, it's something you learned to do precociously early and always did for yourself. That was part of being independent. And if somebody stepped into do it, in a way I could imagine it could feel really luxurious and nice, and kind of on the other hand could feel sort of intrusive or threatening in a way.
 (inaudible at 42:50)
 I'm sorry to hear that.
 Hmm?
 What comes to mind?
 I got the impression there might have been a response you wanted there from me or something after describing what, you know, what you did about how things have been.
 What if it's not?
 And if not?
 Sorry. (PAUSE) What is it like if the space isn't filled with more stuff.
 (LAUGHTER)
 I walked into that one.
 I wonder if you're having a reaction maybe somewhat generally and also (inaudible) been here just now, to what you have been talking about this week. I guess it occurred to me somewhere late yesterday that you had come in saying, you know, you say you didn't feel like you couldn't string a sentence together and wound up. Like, for the first time since you've been coming here, like talking about your mother. [00:11:09]
 And... Go ahead.
 (LAUGHTER)
 I see.
 (inaudible)
 Yeah.
(PAUSE)
 I think I probably wasn't sort of clear. I guess what I meant was (PAUSE) I think you've been sort of putting your toe in some pretty difficult upsetting stuff that you probably have been warding off for a long time and what you're talking about this week and (PAUSE) stirring that up. (PAUSE) Maybe part of what's making you feel bad and making it hard to talk again. [00:13:35]
 I think you've kept yourself at some distance from the feelings that go along with this. [00:15:05]
 I mean, like we were talking about earlier. It seems to me that... I guess the clearest way I can explain it is that I think at points over our last two sessions, you were, I mean, both of us were struck by certain things that, not having said more, that your mom or about how you missed her or some things you felt for her. I guess it seems to me that we were both sort of struck that you hadn't realized that you hadn't talked about it. And then similarly on Wednesday I think it was, seemed to me like (PAUSE) there were feelings where it was sort of clear how you were not putting things together or not feeling certain things that were clearly associated with the stories you were telling. [00:16:21]
 Okay. Okay.
 Alright. (inaudible)
 Yeah, I feel like I'm stretching a bit. I don't feel like I necessarily (inaudible) feel like where you're at.
 I see.
(PAUSE)
 Yeah. Really bad.
 No but it is how you feel.
 Yeah. That would be the most candid.
 Yeah. Other people, most other people don't feel like this. [00:24:55]
 I don't know yet.
 Sure. (PAUSE) And when you say that you want to die and that you can relate to Hamlet something like that...
 You know there are some things that I understand about that and then there's things that I probably, that I don't. I am clear that you are hurting so badly that you just want to be done. But (PAUSE) I'm not sure what the pain feels like, where and how you feel it, you know, what the sort of, bigger picture question of what's causing it and stuff like that. [00:30:07]
 About what it feels like? Sure.
 You can just sit if you want to just sit.
 (LAUGHTER)
(PAUSE)
 I see. [00:33:11]
 And what hurts you about that?
(PAUSE)
 Right.
 Um. (PAUSE) (inaudible)
 Yeah, I mean, I think you can't bear the disillusionment or, you know, or the terror that you also know about or the destructiveness which is something you also know about. (PAUSE)
 Oh.
 Oh okay.
 Do you know what is uncomfortable about not being able to see me? [00:45:59]
 (inaudible)
 Do you mean connections with me or among the things we're talking about?
 What about it?
 Do you want to just sit in one place and cry?
 You what? [00:52:09]
 Right.
 Yeah there's some kind of dramatic activity that goes on with this. (PAUSE) And that you get really angry with yourself for and I guess also (inaudible). [00:56:07]
 Yeah. Well why don't we stop for now.
 We'll talk more.
 Thank you. Take care.
 You were furious at being (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) whatever the reason (inaudible) take things with equanimity and (inaudible) 
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 Medically or physically? Masturbation [has no effect on anything] 00:05:38 (inaudible) clear (inaudible) saying that today (inaudible) 
 (inaudible to 00:08:32) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 But she got you (inaudible) other way.
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 You sound disappointed. 
 I'm not sure. I'm...you sound to me right now like you're disappointed. 
 (inaudible) 
 I don't know but (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) you're not getting a (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) (laughter) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) that, sort of...you're using that as an excuse. 
 (inaudible) 
 Yeah. 
 (inaudible) one way of being on top of him. (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 Dragging it out and (inaudible) 
 It's like maybe too much (inaudible) unreasonable. And you resent this. 
 Yeah and (inaudible) surge of blood (inaudible) 00:29:17
 (inaudible)
 (inaudible) not only bribe (ph) them but (inaudible) scares people. 
 So, he proceeded in telling you (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) feeling (inaudible) for what you did. 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible) hear what you're saying but (inaudible) it turns out that your brighten than he is but you wind up feeling like you shouldn't have done it and (inaudible) 
 Do you get the feeling that like the way you're looking at it right now is like he plants little doubts that like accumulate over time and sort of...you see them as like eroding your sense of self confidence; just like the elements eroding...chipping away (inaudible) little by little by little. 
 Shut up. If you had any gumption. 
 Nothing you could do now. 
 (inaudible) quietly awaken (inaudible) 
 You mean maybe he enjoys (inaudible)?
 (inaudible) I'm as fragile as he sees the kids (inaudible) 00:40:59 
 Sort of like he feeding off of you. 
 Like taking away your substance; growing at your expense. (quiet from 00:41:31 to 00:42:40)
 Because you can't? 
 I'm not sure what you're saying. 
 No, wait. I understand how you were used but I'm not sure what you're saying about...
 Yeah. If you can give as much as you get.
 He needs to do it.
 You sound different to me right now than you sounded earlier....clear (inaudible) like I can't pin it down either. 00:45:32
 Today.
 Yeah. 
 They're all (inaudible) themselves. 
 It's because you can't...you don't have the guts to assert yourself. 
 (inaudible) takes some sort of consideration.
 So, they're happier being selfish then you were trying to do the right thing. 
 The patsy. 
 They're doing it...I'm hearing you say they do it because I....
 But, no...I thought you were...no. Even more than that it's like I'm willing to be the doormat and nobody...of course, you wipe your feet on the doormat. You don't think about...you don't say well, the doormat so you might as well wipe your feet on it; it's just there. But they don't even...I thought (inaudible) they don't even know they're doing it sometimes. 
 What were you going to say?
 (inaudible) totally unreasonable but on the other hand, you just knuckled under. 
 (inaudible) you don't know how to draw the line (inaudible) Like you don't know when (inaudible) 
 Okay. 
 Yeah. When they're that extreme you can sort of put your foot down and really just feel indignant (ph). It's like most people don't do it quite that way...quite that...
 It sounds like you...or what you've been saying today (inaudible) in some ways a prisoner of habits. 00:54:09
 (inaudible) 
 (inaudible or quiet from 00:55:14 to 00:56:21 then tape stops) 
 ...324-006, Interview Number 13, Client 0324-006, Interview Number 13.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I hope it's or I'd like to make clear, like I've, I didn't know what was going on and I felt like because of my recollection of what we were talking about the last time that maybe you were feeling two ways about it. I just kind of wanted to get that straight. I wasn't annoyed because you weren't coming or anything like that or if my letter had that tone in it at all, it wasn't that.
 Okay. Yeah, I really feel like it's an open, it's like I always like to make sure where people are and I don't want to just assume that they're not going to come. So I feel like it's... 
 ...very open for us today and I don't expect you to continue or whatever. I just wanted to see if you could work out something.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I remembered feeling or my recollection is fuzzy and I didn't...I wouldn't go back and listen to that last interview but I remember feeling that you really felt discouraged about what was going here and you were kind of sick of how you were talking and how I was talking and yet we didn't know what to do about it. And I just kind of felt like you were just maybe discouraged and it was hard to... 
 Yeah.
 Oh.
 You mean like information type advice about your job is?
 It sounds like there are many, that right now, are many, many more external or suddenly, it sounds like... 
 ...external pressures really?
 Are you considering leaving the, what's the word, committee or?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Is that kind of 'what's going to happen to me' panic, it sounds like to me?
 Yeah. And somehow though, some of those little things, sometimes at least, stave it off for a while but, I meant the list making, that could?
 Yeah, I was going to say, you immobilized or something?
 Yeah. Yeah, and so I'm connecting, just this sense, sort of up with what you were saying before. It sounds like right now you feel it does not do you one bit of good to come here when you're feeling really low because then, my guess about it is, you just have another place where you're not accomplishing anything or you're not doing anything.
 When you start to be sort of on your way up or feel something positive stirring, then you have another chance of getting, of feeling like you need some work in some sphere or something. Is that sort of what it's like for you?
 Reflecting the fog?
 Okay. That feels like good information for me because, well, just...I was beginning to feel like, "Geeze, it's really a shame that you feel you sort of have to sit and that you don't get anything done. And if there is something that we do in here that is more help than just reflecting back, fine." And I...I know how that feels.
 It's not very good and it's, I mean, it makes me mad after a while.
 So like I'd like to know something you might be able to try. I don't know whether that would work now. [0:16:02.5]
 Yeah.
 [inaudible at 0:17:01.2]... 
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Well, part of that, it's just like I have this image of a person sitting in a swamp or...something they feel caught in. And coming and having feelings reflected is like having, just somebody come and sit with you in the swamp and talk about how bogged down you are.
 And it was really kind of... 
 Yeah, it's that kind of thing. And like that's, I don't know, it can be depressing, it's going to be frustrating, it can be anger producing, whatever. And it's like it, I don't hear you necessarily saying that you want me to do anything for you but it's more like, "Well, let's just look at it a different way or try to talk about it in a different way."
 Or something, I mean, something equivalent to a breath of fresh air.
 Yes, it sounds... [0:19:57.4]
 Yeah, the feeling I got was, like in terms of energy, is something that must take a lot of energy to fight that off or to have that as an alternative. And like, "Now I not only have the time but I have some energy that's a little freer." Maybe.
 Yeah.
 But that really, it sounds to me, I mean, that really feels good to hear you say that because it, I'm wondering does it also feel as good to be able to do it? To say to somebody... 
 "Look..."
 Yeah.
 You're not being a clinger?
 I'm interested, is that working out better with your boyfriend also?
 That must be a realization?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Now it sounds like you've learned a way of, well, this will sound mushy, but helping him or like... 
 You (ph) must have felt very punitive doing that even though it was, felt right?
 Wait, your mother went to Italy?
 You sense that he's not like afraid or wary of you so much that you're used to being concerned about?
 Worry about the effect you're having on him you mean?
 Like a reciprocal tension thing?
 You know, you get worried about it and you feel that anxiety or something. I'm a firm believer in that.
 And whether or not that was really real, it does sound gruesome, the fetus.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. 
 Yeah.
 Oh. [0:43:04.0]
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it's kind of [power I guess.] (ph) [0:45:09.8]
 He finally came up with the stimulus, not your response to it?
 It sounds more like something that you were able to share with him, rather than feeling you laid it on him and had to then... 
 ...hold it back or something, like he was really there to be with you?
 Yeah.
 It's like through all that horror there was, I get the feeling that there was something that you knew was there, namely...and it, I don't know, you could trust that for a while?
 Yeah, it's almost like both independence and withdraw have an apartness about them, but there's something very different about them. I mean, like when you're independent you still have, I'm just talking off the top of my head but it, what occurs to me is, when you're independent you still have contact with people and social withdraw is just truncating all of that. Now that's one difference I see. I don't know if that's how it is with you.
 I'm sorry. - Hello. Yeah. Look, can I, can you call... Can you call me back in five minutes? Thanks.
 What, are you saying that your identity really revolves around doing something, is tied up in doing this negative thing? Is that what you're saying?
 Is that time sort of like with your talking about, you have to maintain your identity, you felt you had to like hold yourself in? And I wondered if that was what, where you sensed the threat? Or you had to keep yourself away from people? I'm not sure, I think I put it in different words than you did.
 Yeah, because it sounds like, I'm not sure about it yet. It's like but everything functions. The unrealized separateness [audio blanks from 0:58:47.5 to 0:58:59.4]... like the, a part that is but there was something there, it would be something very threatening about opening yourself to reach out or... 
 ...to let someone else in? And it gets very vicious it sounds like or enclosed?
 Sorry to cut you off, we're going to have to stop.
 Yeah. [inaudible]... 
 Hi.
 That's okay.
 Thank you.
 Good thank you.
 Is he grouchy because he wanted to spend New Year's with you? Or...
 Does it make you feel helpless?
 What would you be giving over to him?
 Did you ever get your health insurance settled? [00:11:46]
 Is there a reason that you'd pick that versus getting on his insurance, or...? [00:14:01]
 Really?
 Really?
 What did you do before you nannied (sp)? [00:14:57]
 Shaky. How do you mean?
 It sounds like one of the things you're worried about is properly taking care of them.
 Well it sounds like you're really worried about yourself. [00:23:17]
 How long have you felt this way, like worried about your emotional wellbeing? [00:25:29]
 Do you feel like the anxiety is just sort of always there, or do you feel like it really heightens at certain moments or times?
 Well again it is helplessness. You don't have a choice. [00:30:01]
 Hopeful? [00:30:50]
 I think that can happen. I mean I think it makes sense, because the anxiety about this helplessness, feeling out of control, feeling like something horrible is going to happen. And if you let go of that, I mean, in a sense that protects you from feeling other feelings, like sad...
 ... about not having that kind of control.
 And so those two sometimes go hand in hand. You're feeling less anxious, but maybe you're feeling more sad.
 Well it seems like you have two visions of yourself and the future. One is that the feelings that you have will get better.
 And one is that, another one is that you're gonna go over the deep end.
 That happiness takes willpower?
 What made you just say that? [00:37:55]
 Does it work? [00:39:05]
 Is that okay? [00:40:06]
 You've used up your quota of tears for the day.
 (sneezes)
 Thank you.
 Yeah? Relieved?
 It's so much harder when you have to, sort of, deal with all the worries by yourself and keep them inside.
 No, we still have a few minutes. Are you ready to go?
 Hmm.
 Hmm. You suspect he isn't?
 About your going to the New Year's party?
 How so?
 He's brooding.
 We do, we do need to stop. So again, I'm here next Monday, but the following Monday I'm not here on Martin Luther King Day. Would you like... but I'm back the rest of the week. Would you like to try to find another time that week?
 Okay then I'll absolutely do that.
 Take a look at my schedule, okay?
 That's fine. Okay, take care.
 Okay. Goodbye.
 Okay [PATIENT NAME], you were here in September and when I saw you in September it was not a good time for you, you had lost a job, you had been down in the dumps, you were having some issues with your girlfriend, you were questioning where you were going to be living perhaps if she put you out.  My recollection is that it was not a good time for you.
 Okay.
 Right.
 Well [PATIENT NAME], I recall a patient I had seen, obviously, a very different set of circumstances, he was from some eastern European country and he was the equivalent of the governor of the state of Pennsylvania, let's say, he was also trained as a lawyer, taught at the law school part time in addition to being the governor of his, whatever, municipality and he came here with his wife and daughter to give her a better life, I guess primarily the daughter, was pumping gas nights.  His degree didn't mean squat here.  The fact that he was a governor in his own country didn't mean anything here and it was very depressing for him but he said, you know what, I don't want to be doing this for the rest of my life here but I've got to put food on the table for my family so am I embarrassed, am I ashamed, I'm all of that but I don't care, I'm motivated, I have to learn the language, you know, I have to do this, I have to do that, so as you're talking about jobs, I hope you have some flexibility maybe and are willing to move a little bit to the right or the left or up or down, you know, within reason, I mean you don't want to be flipping burgers I don't think but -
 Because that in itself would be a little depressing I think but, you know, you may not find the plumb job and this is not a great time of the year.  People start shutting down.
 And it's kind of like this, you know, dead zone between now and New Years, you know.
 You know [PATIENT NAME], I see this guy who I've been seeing for a few months and it's like I've been seeing him for years.  He's just so out of control this guy.  He is a lawyer who I think has been at least, can you be disbarred twice, but he's been so incapacitate but he made a lot of money as a lawyer so that he has savings but he and his wife split.  He's about your age I guess, maybe a little, roughly your age, and his wife said I don't care what you do, you just have to get out of the house and be doing something, something productive, I don't care what it is.
 You can do that stuff.
 Well good.  Well this guy, actually his job, he did the same thing, his friend runs a pawn shop, it's a non paying job, he just has to show up basically and just stay out of trouble.  
 Yours will be a paying job though.
 If you sell, okay, fine, but at least, you know what, at least it forces you to be up, around people, moving, talking, maybe, you never know who you might run into and hey, a lot of things.  I've got guys [PATIENT NAME] that are, you know, kind of, we'll say, in between stuff and they're selling cars, they're doing this, they're doing that and, you know what, there's no shame in that, I mean it's a sign of resiliency, it's a sign of understanding that, you know, you have to do something, you can't just cave and just cower in the corner, you know, saying pity me and poor me and whatever, you've got to do what you've got to do.  Eventually it'll, hopefully, lead to something more in line with what you want, including the salary and benefits and all that stuff, so that's good.
 Yeah sure.  You know, [PATIENT NAME] I was reminded of a patient I saw, she was a hardworking woman, she worked at like one of these big box stores like [DEIDENTIFIED] or [DEIDENTIFIED] or something and her husband was a smart guy who had a good job with a company, made good money, and he was laid off, something happened, I forget what it was, and for a year or two years, whatever, she saw him as doing nothing but sitting around doing nothing and she would, it would become a source of a lot of friction and she would say my God just get up and do something, go somewhere, look at me, I'm working for Walmart or whatever she was doing and he said, he would look down at her, do you know what kind of a job I had, do you know who I was, that's beneath me and I need to, I'm not wasting time, I'm inventing things here, I'm trying to generate some big ideas and, of course, that may have been try to some extent but she just saw him, she saw herself working like a dog for, you know, basically minimum wage and this guy is sitting around, you know, eating, watching TV, doing this and that and not really being productive.  He wasn't necessarily depressed or anything like that but it was a source of friction for them and understandably.
 Oh yeah, wow.
 That's interesting [PATIENT NAME], you know, I certainly can see why some people would think that way but I think that's kind of single minded and -
 Not just short sighted, I don't know but kind of says more about that person than about you, you know.
 Because I've known, I've known people, doctors and lawyers who've done stuff like, you know, selling at stores, not because necessarily they needed the money, although certainly the money helps but because they liked whatever it was, whether it was selling cars or selling boats or selling, you know, hiking equipment and they liked people, they had free time and they're thinking what the heck, they maybe had ideas about starting their own business, they wanted some experience in things, there's nothing wrong with that.  
 Are you still seeing [PHYSICIAN NAME OTHER]?
 I mentioned it because I owe him a phone call.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's a good guy.
 Yeah, yeah, he's big with the office of vocation rehabilitation, he's very plugged into the kind of, you know, the work aspects and vocational things, career stuff.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Yeah.
 Well, he's very much, he's a psychologist but he's been always very plugged into not just the social worker kind of scene but specifically work related stuff, career employment type stuff, so yeah he's a good guy.
 Yeah, he does -
 Oh yeah, I didn't know that.
 Yeah, he does a lot of stuff with educational stuff, schools and things like that too
 Yeah, he's good.
 Yeah.  There's so many different doctoral degrees, you know -
 EDD, PhyD, PHD, whatever, but he's been around a long time.  Many of my patients have seen him, let's put it that way.
 Right, right, right.
 Good.
 All right.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Uh-huh.
 Right, right, right.
 Good.
 Right, right, sure.
 Okay.
 You know what, you [PATIENT NAME] when I look at you, see when we last met, you were kind of downtrodden and I don't want to say feeling hopeless but things were not looking good for you, your perception of things and while things may not have improved in practical tangible ways, I think you're a very different person today, you know, I think you're doing a whole lot of stuff, you're making a lot of effort, you seem like you have, you know this is not in your hands and yet you're, you know, you're using a lot of resources, you're energetic, you're moving and something good is going to come from all this.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Good.
 Good, good, so it looks like to me like, you know, you're trying to not necessarily reinvent yourself but move yourself in different directions to make yourself either more marketable or open up different opportunities for yourself.
 That's good.
 Those things like what, like not wanting to be alive?
 Okay.
 No surprise there.
 [PATIENT NAME], I'm going to ask you a question as you're walking out because I don't want you to get all bent out of shape.  Anyway, you've been taking the Effexor?
 Why did I -
 Well we'll find out when I ask you the question later.  So you're taking the 75 mg, three of them?
 Okay and you're taking the Ritalin.
 The regular Ritalin and the LA, 10 and 30.
 Okay.
 Short acting.
 Yeah.
 You're talking about the LA?
 Uh-huh.
 Meaning it's washing away?
 It's not because that Effexor stays in your system twenty four, seven, it may be that you take it in the morning and because there's some more Norepinephrine component that you may feel that, less, I don't want to say stimulation but as far as, you know, antianxiety and antidepressant effect, that should not change during the course of the day.  I think it's probably unrelated, that feeling that you have.
 That doesn't surprise me either.
 I think you're probably right.
 [PATIENT NAME] I want to tell you this, I gave your resume to that person and little did I know, the guy is like never around, he's like traveling all over the country, the world, I don't know where the hell he is but he did send me a card and specifically mentioned your resume in there and said, you know, you gave me this resume and, you know, we should talk about it so he, I got that letter, he was around for a day or two and then back somewhere in Florida.  He's trying to help somebody set up some business in Arizonaand I don't know what the hell he goes to, you know, he's in Europe. [DEIDENTIFIED], whatever.  I will make it a point to reach out to him because I'll just wish him, you know, holiday cheer and I'll say, you know, I just wanted to talk to you about that resume.  So I didn't forget about you, I said I would put it in somebody's hands, I obviously can't guarantee you that it's going to translate into a job.
 Well, I was thinking about, he's a guy that I think, I see as one of the most influential and powerful people I know that is, you know, is in the business world let's say.
 But no, I mean I have people who are accountants, I have people who are, I have one guy I know who is a, he's like a headhunter in medical sales type jobs.  I don't know if you have any experience in anything there but, you know, I have to, I have to figure some things out.  I have a guy who was a very smart guy working on I think his masters or PhD, bad relationship, girlfriend kicked him out, you know, stuff like that, divorced and -
 Where did he go?
 You know where he went?
 You won't believe this.  He was working kind of just keeping busy like, again, trying to appease somebody working at Sears I think selling, it didn't work out and, but he said it was kind of fun doing it for a while.  I hooked him up with a guy I know who is a solo, is a lawyer, you know, he practices in a solo practice and this guy that I sent him to is, he's very bright, very articulate, very well read and he loves doing like research and stuff so I hooked him up and the guy was giving him, you know, he was paying him to do like research for him and work for him and so he's learning about, you known, the legal system and stuff and so, and the guy said look, I can pay you ten bucks an hour and we'll see, I could probably end up using you, I'll use you this many hours, so he's been working more and more hours for this guy..  Anyway, when the guy's girlfriend put him out, the guy he had been working with for a few months said look, in the office there's a room on the back that has a bathroom and shower and whatever, he said why don't you stay there for as long as you need to.
 I put those two guys together.
 Anyway, listen, the question I wanted to ask you and I'll ask you now and I'm going to write you the prescriptions for the Effexor and the Ritalin and the Ritalin.  The question is [PATIENT NAME], I don't want to, I don't want to insert myself where I don't belong because I'm not a mini therapist of sorts, you know, for the short time we have, I'm supposed to be managing your medication and all that stuff but I can't help but thinking, you know, you're living with this woman, you know, who needs who more and I'm sure, well I'm not sure but I would wonder if there's part of you that says that maybe this person or relationship is not, not as healthy as I would like it to be or I think it is and maybe even contributing to how I feel and in a sense putting me further behind, you know, the eight ball, you know what I'm thinking, like I don't -
  Well, our time's up.